SENTENCE IMPROVEMENT
to substitute the underline/Bold segment in the given sentence.
If there is no need to improve it, select ‘no improvement
required’.
Q.1. The manager insisted on meet the deadline.
SSC CGL 12/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) to meet the deadline (b) on meeting the deadline
(c) to have met the deadline (d) for meeting the deadline
Q.2. The librarian instructed the patrons to return books on time
and keeping noise levels down in the reading area.
SSC CGL 12/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) to return books on time and to keep the noise levels down
(b) returning books on time and keeping noise levels down
(c) to return books on time and keep down the noise levels
(d) returning books on time and to keep noise levels down
Q.3. Scarcely had she finished her speech then the applause
erupted.
SSC CGL 12/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) than the applause erupted
(b) when the applause had erupted
(c) when the applause erupted
(d) that the applause erupted
Q.4. The committee decided on to postpone the decision until
the next meeting.
SSC CGL 12/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) to postpone (b) on postponing
(c) for postponing (d) postpone
Q.5. They proposed us to consider a different approach.
SSC CGL 12/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) that we consider a different approach
(b) us considering a different approach
(c) to consider a different approach by us
(d) that we considered a different approach
Q.6. I wonder what is the reason for her sudden departure.
SSC CGL 12/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) what the reason is for her sudden departure
(b) what the reason for her sudden departure is
(c) what is the reason her sudden departure
(d) the reason for her sudden departure is what
Q.7. The teacher insisted that every student answers the
question carefully.
SSC CGL 13/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) answered the question carefully
(b) answer the question carefully
(c) has answered the question carefully
(d) should answers the question carefully
Q.8. She is accustomed to working long hours during peak
season.
SSC CGL 13/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) to work (b) for working (c) with working (d) to working
Sentence Improvement
Q.9. The students formed a study group with a view to achieve
higher grades.
SSC CGL 13/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) achieving higher grades (b) to achieve higher grades
(c) for achieving higher grades (d) achieve higher grades
Q.10. Many people consider him as their leader.
SSC CGL 13/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) for their leader (b) their leader
(c) to be their leader (d) as being their leader
Q.11. As we approached near the station, it started to rain
heavily.
SSC CGL 13/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) approached to (b) approached
(c) approached towards (d) went nearby
Q.12. The politician was widely criticised at his controversial
remarks.
SSC CGL 13/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) for his controversial remarks
(b) on his controversial remarks
(c) with his controversial remarks
(d) about his controversial remarks
Q.13. If she knew you were coming, she would have baked a
cake.
SSC CGL 14/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) knows you were coming
(b) had known you were coming
(c) was knowing you were coming
(d) has known you were coming
Q.14. It’s high time they should start preparing for the exam.
SSC CGL 14/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) started preparing for the exam
(b) should have started preparing for the exam
(c) start to prepare for the exam
(d) will start preparing for the exam
Q.15. The committee discussed about implementing new safety
protocols during the meeting.
SSC CGL 14/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) discussed implementing
(b) had a discussion about implementing
(c) were discussing about implementing
(d) had been discussed implementing
Q.16. Strict regulations were enacted to prevent industries to
discharge untreated waste into the river.
SSC CGL 14/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) from discharging untreated waste into
(b) from discharge of untreated waste into
(c) to discharging untreated waste into
(d) for discharging untreated waste in
Q.17. The committee is comprised of members from various
disciplines.
SSC CGL 14/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) is comprised by (b) comprises of
(c) comprises (d) is comprising
Q.18. The new regulations are effective from January 1st across
all sectors.
SSC CGL 14/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) with January 1st (b) by January 1st
(c) as of January 1st (d) on January 1st
Q.19. She is junior than him in experience.
SSC CGL 15/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) junior from him (b) more junior than him
(c) junior to him (d) younger to him
Q.20. He do not likes to be disturbed while studying.
SSC CGL 15/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) do not like (b) does not liked
(c) does not like (d) is not liking
Q.21. The tourists are going to abroad for a cultural exchange
program.
SSC CGL 15/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) are going abroad (b) are going for abroad
(c) are going in abroad (d) are going towards abroad
Q.22. She is looking forward to meet you.
SSC CGL 15/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) is looking forward for meeting you
(b) is looking forward to meeting you
(c) is looking forward about meeting you
(d) is looking forward meet you
Q.23. She ran very quick to catch the bus.
SSC CGL 15/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) quickly very (b) quick (c) quickly (d) more quickly
Q.24. You will not succeed unless you do not work harder.
SSC CGL 15/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) unless you work (b) if you did not work
(c) unless you will work (d) if you work
Q.25. She discussed about the issue with her manager.
SSC CGL 16/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) discussed on the issue (b) discussed the issue
(c) had discussed about the issue (d) was discussed the issue
Q.26. Either the committee members or the chairperson have
agreed to the proposal.
SSC CGL 16/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) have agreed (b) has agreed
(c) are agreeing (d) were agreed
Q.27. He decided to marry with her despite his parents'
objections.
SSC CGL 16/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) marry her (b) marrying with her
(c) to marry to her (d) to marry her
Q.28. Every one of the participants have completed the arduous
obstacle course.
SSC CGL 16/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) has completed (b) are completing
(c) were completing (d) complete
Q.29. I suggest that he tries harder to succeed.
SSC CGL 16/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) tried harder to succeed (b) try harder to succeed
(c) tries hard to succeed (d) should tried harder to succeed
Q.30. He is married with a lawyer.
SSC CGL 16/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) married at (b) married to (c) married by (d) married from
Q.31. He is keen to learn of swimming.
Sentence Improvement
SSC CGL 17/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) to learn swimming (b) on learning swimming
(c) in learning to swim (d) on learning to swim
Q.32. The new policy aims at reducing carbon emissions.
SSC CGL 17/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) in reducing carbon emissions
(b) for reducing carbon emissions
(c) to reduce carbon emissions
(d) with reducing carbon emissions
Q.33. The instructions clarify that what the user must do to
complete the registration.
SSC CGL 17/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) that what must the user do (b) what the user must do
(c) what must the user do (d) that the user must do what
Q.34. She made a decision after thinking for a long time.
SSC CGL 17/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) did a decision (b) took a decision
(c) had a decision (d) brought a decision
Q.35. My colleague was particularly fond at listening to classical
music during his commute.
SSC CGL 18/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) fond of listening to (b) fond for listening to
(c) fond with listening for (d) fond to listen for
Q.36. Her constant complaints resulted to her losing friends.
SSC CGL 18/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) resulted for (b) resulted from (c) resulted into (d) resulted in
Q.37. I am hearing a strange noise from upstairs.
SSC CGL 18/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) hear a strange noise (b) have heard a strange noise
(c) heard a strange noise (d) am hearing strange noise
Q.38. The government suspected that the scientist had been
knowing the solution to the complex problem for months.
SSC CGL 18/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) known the solution (b) knowingly solved
(c) knowing the solution (d) been known the solution
Q.39. The student studied diligently so he could pass the
difficult examination.
SSC CGL 18/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) so he passes (b) so that he might pass
(c) so that he will pass (d) so he might passing
Q.40. He has been living in this city since five years.
SSC CGL 19/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) since five years (b) for five years
(c) by five years (d) from five year
Q.41. The committee debated about the new policy for hours
without a resolution.
SSC CGL 19/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) debated on (b) debated over
(c) debated (d) debated regarding
Q.42. She has been waiting for you since two hours.
SSC CGL 19/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) from two hours (b) for two hours
(c) since the two hours (d) from the last two hours
Q.43. Her performance was superior of all her competitors.
SSC CGL 19/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) superior to (b) superior over
(c) superior as compared to (d) superior from
Q.44. She reverted back to her old habits despite her promises.
SSC CGL 19/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) reverted again (b) reverted
(c) returned back (d) reverted once more
Q.45. They present their findings on the conference when the
power suddenly went out.
SSC CGL 20/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) present their findings at the conference
(b) presented their findings at the conference
(c) have been presenting their findings at the conference
(d) were presenting their findings at the conference
Q.46. He sat by his in the corner.
SSC CGL 20/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) by him (b) by himself (c) by his own (d) by myself
Q.47. He was accused for stealing the confidential files.
SSC CGL 20/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) of stealing (b) with stealing
(c) about stealing (d) on stealing
Q.48. The old man walked bare head in the sun.
SSC CGL 20/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) bearshead (b) bare headed
(c) bareheadly (d) with naked head
Q.49. The politician was criticised on making false promises
during the campaign.
SSC CGL 20/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) on making false promises (b) for making false promises
(c) of making false promises (d) with making false promises
Q.50. He is capable for handling of the complex project.
SSC CGL 21/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) of handling (b) to handle (c) in handling (d) by handling
Q.51. I asked the children where have they been.
SSC CGL 21/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) where they have been (b) where had they been
(c) where they had been (d) where have they been
Q.52. The manager demanded that the report is submitted by
Friday.
SSC CGL 21/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) has submitted (b) will be submitted
(c) be submitted (d) to be submitted
Q.53. The police warned against the dangers of sailing alone.
SSC CGL 21/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) that dangers are sailing alone
(b) of the dangers of sailing alone
(c) it’s dangerous of sailing alone
(d) of the dangers against sailing alone
Q.54. The minister was accused for taking bribes from a foreign
company.
SSC CGL 22/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) accused with (b) accused on
(c) accused of (d) accused from
Q.55. The news have shocked everyone in the office.
Sentence Improvement
SSC CGL 22/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) has shocked everyone in the office
(b) have been shocking everyone in the office
(c) is shocking everyone in the office
(d) shocked everyone in the office
Q.56. The athlete was too exhausted that he could not finish the
race.
SSC CGL 22/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) so exhausted that he could finish the race
(b) too exhausted to finish
(c) very exhausted to finish the race
(d) so much exhausted for finishing the race
Q.57. He travels to school in bike every morning.
SSC CGL 22/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) by the bike (b) on bike (c) by bike (d) on the bike
Q.58. He is responsible to complete the task on time.
SSC CGL 22/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) of completing the task on time
(b) for completing the task on time
(c) in completing the task on time
(d) to completing the task on time
Q.59. Each of the candidates were asked submit his document
before noon.
SSC CGL 23/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) was asked (b) were being asked
(c) has asked (d) are asked
Q.60. She visits their grandparents in the countryside last
month to help them with the harvest.
SSC CGL 23/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) does not visit their grandparents
(b) visit her grandparents in the countryside
(c) visited her grandparents in the countryside
(d) used to visit her grandparents in the countryside
Q.61. She advised to her friend to take precautions during the
trip.
SSC CGL 23/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) advised her friend take precautions
(b) advised to her friend taking precautions
(c) advised her friend to take precautions
(d) advised her friend taking precaution
Q.62. That bridge is built from steel.
SSC CGL 23/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) is constructed with steel (b) is built of steel
(c) has made by steel (d) is produced from steel
Q.63. He prevented me to enter the room.
SSC CGL 23/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) for entering the room (b) from entering the room
(c) to entering the room (d) of entering the room
Q.64. By the time we finish dinner, the guests had already left.
SSC CGL 24/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) finished (b) have finished
(c) were finishing (d) had finished
Q.65. He has completed his work yesterday.
SSC CGL 24/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) completed his work (b) has been completing his work
(c) had completed his work (d) completes his work
Q.66. He plays football every evening, isn’t he ?
SSC CGL 24/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) doesn’t he? (b) isn’t he? (c) hasn’t he? (d) didn’t he?
Q.67. He behaves as if he was the owner of the company.
SSC CGL 24/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) like he was (b) as if he is
(c) as though he was (d) as if he were
Q.68. If I was a bird, I would fly to distant lands.
SSC CGL 25/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) is (b) were (c) am (d) been
Q.69. He has been lived in london for five years.
SSC CGL 25/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) has been living (b) has being lived
(c) have lived (d) have been lived
Q.70. She consulted the matter with her mentor before
submitting the report.
SSC CGL 25/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) discussed the matter with
(b) talked over the matter with
(c) told the matter to
(d) said to her mentor about the matter
Q.71. She succeeded because of her hard works and
dedication.
SSC CGL 25/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) because of her hard work and dedication
(b) due to her hardworking and dedication
(c) owing to her hard works and dedication
(d) as she was hardworking and dedication
Q.72. The analyst insisted that the latest forecasting model was
superior than the one used last year.
SSC CGL 25/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) more superior than the one (b) superior to the one
(c) superior then the one (d) superior over the one
Q.73. The researcher would have written and publish several
reports in his early thirties if he had not fallen sick.
SSC CGL 25/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) published several report (b) publish several reports
(c) publishing several reports (d) published several reports
Q.74. He was so hungry to eat the entire meal.
SSC CGL 26/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) that he could eat the entire meal
(b) and he ate the entire meal
(c) that he eats the entire meal
(d) that he might eat the entire meal
Q.75. He is superior than his colleague in experience.
SSC CGL 26/09/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) superior to his colleague
(b) superior than his colleague
(c) more superior than his colleague
(d) superior from his colleague
Q.76. An anonymous person claims that the suspect will
escaped through the back alley, unnoticed by the police.
SSC CGL 26/09/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) will be escape through (b) will escape through
(c) will have to escaped through (d) shall escaped through
Sentence Improvement
Q.77. He completed the task in short time.
SSC CGL 26/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) completes the task shortly
(b) completed the task in short time
(c) completed the task in a short time
(d) completed shortly the task
Q.78. He runs more faster than his brother.
SSC CGL 26/09/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) faster than (b) more fast than
(c) fastest than (d) more faster than
Q.79. If she knew you were coming, she would have baked a
cake.
SSC CGL 14/10/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) knows you were coming
(b) had known you were coming
(c) was knowing you were coming
(d) has known you were coming
Q.80. He is capable for handling of the complex project.
SSC CGL 14/10/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) of handling (b) to handle (c) in handling (d) by handling
Q.81. The interviewer asked the candidate whom will the new
role report to if they are selected for the position.
SSC CGL 14/10/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) the candidate whom the new role shall reporting to
(b) the candidate whom will report to the new role
(c) the candidate whom the new role would report to
(d) the candidate whom the new role will report to
Q.82. Our team leader demands to know how has the critical
error gone unnoticed for so long despite multiple review stages.
SSC CGL 14/10/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) demands to know how is the critical error
(b) demands to know how the critical error has
(c) demands to know how critical the error is
(d) demands to know how the critical error have
Q.83. She advised to her friend to take precautions during the
trip.
SSC CGL 14/10/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) advised her friend take precautions
(b) advised to her friend taking precautions
(c) advised her friend to take precautions
(d) advised her friend taking precaution
Q.84. He decided to marry with her despite his parents'
objections.
SSC CGL 14/10/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) marry her (b) marrying with her
(c) to marry to her (d) to marry her
Sol.1.(b) on meeting the deadline
The verb 'insist' is typically followed by the preposition 'on',
which then takes a gerund (V-ing form) as its object. Hence, 'on
meeting the deadline' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.2.(a)
to return books on time and to keep the noise levels down
The sentence uses parallel structure with the infinitive "to return
books on time." Therefore, ‘keeping’ must be replaced with ‘to
keep’ to maintain parallel structures. Hence, option (a) is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.3.(c) when the applause erupted ‘Scarcely…when’ is a fixed
conjunction pair. Simple past tense is used after ‘when’ and past
perfect tense is used after ‘scarcely’. Hence, ‘when the applause
erupted’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.4.(a) to postpone
The verb 'decided' is generally followed by an infinitive (to + V )
1
to indicate the action that was decided. The phrase "on to
postpone" is grammatically incorrect. Hence, ‘to postpone’ is the
most app
Sol.5.(a) that we consider a different approach
The verb "propose," when followed by a suggestion for action, is
typically followed by a 'that' containing the subjunctive form of
the verb (base form). Hence, "that we consider a different
approach" is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.6.(a) what the reason is for her sudden departure.
The given sentence is an indirect question, and in such
structures, the correct grammatical order after the 'wh-word' is
"subject + verb," not "verb + subject." In the given sentence, "what
the reason is for her sudden departure" correctly follows this
structure: "what" (wh-word) + "the reason" (subject) + "is" (verb).
Hence, "what the reason is for her sudden departure" is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.7.(b) answer the question carefully
After verbs like insist, suggest, demand, or recommend, the
subjunctive mood is used, which takes the base form of the
verb. Therefore, ‘answers’ should be replaced with ‘answer’.
Hence, ‘answer the question carefully’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.8.(d) to working
There are some phrases that are always followed by a
gerund(V-ing). Such phrases are ‘with a view to, looking forward
to, in addition to, accustomed to, habituated to, be used to, prone
to, etc.’ Hence, ‘accustomed to working’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.9.(a) achieving higher grades
There are some phrases that are always followed by a
gerund(V-ing). Such phrases are “with a view to, looking forward
to, in addition to, accustomed to, habituated to, be used to, prone
to, etc.” Hence, ‘achieving higher grades’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.10.(b) their leader
The verb 'consider' is followed directly by the object and its
complement (an adjective or noun) without the need for 'as' or
'to be'. Hence, "their leader" is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.11.(b) approached
The verb ‘approach’ is used without any preposition as it means
to come near to something. Hence, ‘approached’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.12.(a) for his controversial remarks ‘For’ is used to indicate
the reason or purpose of something. Similarly, in the given
sentence, ‘for’ indicates the reason for criticism of the politician.
Hence, ‘for his controversial remarks’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sentence Improvement
Sol.13.(b) had known you were coming The given sentence is an
example of a third conditional sentence and the correct
grammatical structure for it is “If + past perfect(had + V3)……..
Would have + V3”. Hence, “had known you were coming” is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.14.(a) started preparing for the exam
“It’s high time” is followed by a past tense verb to indicate that
something should have already been done. Hence, “started
preparing for the exam” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.15.(a) discussed implementing
The verb “discuss” is transitive, meaning it takes a direct object
and does not require the preposition “about.” Hence, “discussed
implementing” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.16.(a) from discharging untreated waste into
The verb “prevent” is always followed by “from + verb-ing” to
indicate restriction or prohibition. Hence, “from discharging
untreated waste into” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.17.(c) comprises
The verb ‘comprise’ is used without any preposition. ‘Comprise’
is a stative verb and stative verbs are generally not used in
continuous tense. In the given sentence, ‘comprise’ is a singular
verb that will take ‘comprises’ as the singular verb. Hence,
‘comprises’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.18.(c) as of January 1st
The phrase 'as of' is the most appropriate and common way to
indicate the time from which something starts to be effective or
true.
Sol.19.(c) junior to him
There are some words that imply comparison but do not take
‘than’. Rather, ‘to’ is used with them. For example:- superior to,
inferior to, prior to, senior to, junior to, elder to, etc. Hence, “junior
to him” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.20.(c) does not like
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb and a plural subject always
takes a plural verb. The subject ‘He’ is singular and therefore
takes the singular helping verb ‘does’. Hence, “does not like” is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.21.(a) are going abroad
The word “abroad” already means to or in a foreign country, so it
does not take a preposition like to, for, in, or towards before it.
Hence, “are going abroad” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.22.(b) is looking forward to meeting you
The phrase “look forward to” is always followed by a gerund
(V+ing form), not the base form. Hence, “looking forward to
meeting you” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.23.(c) quickly
The word 'quick' is an adjective, but the sentence requires an
adverb to describe how she ran. 'Quickly' is the adverbial form of
'quick' and correctly modifies the verb 'ran'. Hence, ‘quickly’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.24.(a) unless you work
The conjunction 'unless' already means 'if not'. Therefore, using
'do not' after 'unless' creates a double negative, making the
phrase grammatically incorrect. The correct structure is 'unless
you work harder'. Hence, ‘unless you work’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.25.(b) discussed the issue
The verb "discuss" is a transitive verb, which means it takes a
direct object without a preposition. Hence, “discussed the issue”
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.26.(b) has agreed
If the paired conjunctions ‘either…or’, ‘neither…nor’, ‘not only…but
also’ are used, the verb agrees with the subject closest to it.
Here, the nearest subject is “the chairperson,” which is singular.
Hence, “has agreed” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.27.(d) to marry her
When 'marry' is used as a transitive verb(with a direct object), it
does not require a preposition like 'with' or 'to'. Therefore, ‘with’
must be removed. Hence, ‘to marry her’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.28.(a) has completed
"Every one of" indicates a singular subject, therefore, the singular
verb 'has' will be used. Hence, ‘has completed’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.29.(b) try harder to succeed
After verbs like suggest, recommend, insist, demand, etc., we
use the subjunctive mood, where the verb takes its base form
(without -s). Hence, “try harder to succeed” is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.30.(b) married to
When referring to a person, the correct preposition used with
married is “to.” Hence, “married to” is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.31.(d) on learning to swim
‘On’ is a fixed preposition used after the adjective ‘keen’ to
indicate interest or enthusiasm about something. Hence, “on
learning to swim” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.32.(c) to reduce carbon emissions The verb ‘aim’ is generally
followed by an infinitive (to + V 1 ). Hence, ‘to reduce carbon
emissions’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.33.(b) what the user must do
Here, two relative pronouns, ‘that’ and ‘what’ have been used to
form a single noun clause, which is grammatically incorrect. So,
we need to remove ‘that’ from this sentence. Hence, ‘what the
user must do’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.34.(b) took a decision
The phrase “took a decision” is used to express that someone
decided something after consideration. Hence, “took a decision”
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.35.(a) fond of listening to
‘Fond of’ is the correct phrase, which means having an affection
or liking for something. ‘Listen to’ is used when hearing any kind
of sound. Hence, ‘fond of listening to’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.36.(d) resulted in
‘Result in’ means to cause a particular situation to happen. The
given sentence states that her constant complaints resulted in
her losing friends. Hence, ‘resulted in’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.37.(a) hear a strange noise
The verb “hear” is a non-continuous (stative) verb, meaning it
Sentence Improvement
describes a state or sense, not an ongoing action. Such verbs
are not used in the continuous (-ing) form when talking about
perception or senses. Hence, “hear a strange noise” is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.38.(a) known the solution
The verb ‘know’ is a stative verb and stative verbs are generally
not used in the continuous tense. ‘Had + V ’ is the correct
3
grammatical structure for this clause which is in the past perfect
tense. Hence, ‘known(V ) the solution’ is the most appropriate
3
answer.
Sol.39.(b) so that he might pass
‘So that’ is used to indicate the purpose or intention behind an
action. ‘Might’ is used to indicate a possibility in the past. As per
the given sentence, it was the intention of the student to pass
the difficult examination. Hence, ‘so that he might’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.40.(b) for five years
‘For’ is used to indicate a fixed period of time (countable), such
as two years, three months, four days, or eight hours. It shows
how long an action has been continuing. On the other hand,
‘since’ is used for a specific point in time like since 2020, since
Monday, or since morning. In the given sentence, “five years”
refers to a fixed duration, so “for” is the correct choice. Hence,
“for five years” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.41.(c) debated
The verb 'debate' is transitive and usually does not require a
preposition when followed directly by its object. Using 'about',
'on', 'over', or 'regarding' after 'debate' is grammatically incorrect.
Hence, ‘debated the new policy’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.42.(b) for two hours
‘For’ is used for a fixed duration. ‘Since’ is used to denote a point
of time in the past. Here, ‘two hours’ is a fixed duration. Hence,
‘for two hours’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.43.(a) superior to
Adjectives like 'superior', 'inferior', 'junior', 'senior', 'prior', and
'preferable' are followed by the preposition 'to', when making
comparisons. Hence, ‘superior to’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.44.(b) reverted
The word “reverted” itself means to go back to a previous state
or habit, so using “back” is redundant (unnecessary repetition).
Hence, “reverted” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.45.(d) were presenting their findings at the conference
The verb ‘went out’ indicates the action was happening in the
past, not the present. Here, the power went out which interrupted
the presentation. This means the action of presenting was in
progress. Therefore, past continuous tense (plural subject +
were + V ) will be used. Hence, ‘were presenting their findings
ing
at the conference’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.46.(b) by himself
The phrase ‘by + oneself’ means alone or without company.
‘Himself’ is the correct reflexive pronoun for ‘he’. Hence, ‘by
himself’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.47.(a) of stealing
‘Of’ is a fixed preposition used after the verb ‘accuse’ to indicate
the reason or action someone is blamed for. Hence, “of stealing”
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.48.(b) bare headed
"Bare headed" is the proper adjective form meaning "without
a covering on the head." Hence, “bare headed” is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.49.(b) for making false promises
The verb “criticised” is followed by the preposition for when
indicating the reason for criticism. Hence, “for making false
promises” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.50.(a) of handling
The adjective 'capable' is always followed by the preposition 'of',
which then takes a gerund (V-ing form). Hence, 'capable of
handling' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.51.(c) where they had been
When a Wh. word (what, how, why, where, when, etc) is used to
start a relative clause in a sentence, the helping verb and the
main verb both are used after the subject in the clause.
Moreover,, the given sentence is in the past tense, therefore past
perfect tense (had + V3) will be used. Hence, 'where they had
been' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.52.(c) be submitted
In the given sentence, the verb “demand” requires the use of the
subjunctive mood, which takes the base form of the verb after it.
Hence, “be submitted” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.53.(b) of the dangers of sailing alone
‘Warn against’ means to caution someone about the dangers of
something. It is superfluous to use the words like ‘risk / danger /
problems’ with “warn against”. ‘Warn of’ is the correct usage
here. ‘Warn of’ means to caution someone about something.
Hence, “of the dangers of sailing alone” is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.54.(c) accused of
‘Of’ is a fixed preposition used after the verb ‘accused’ to
indicate the allegation or wrongdoing. Hence, ‘accused of’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.55.(a) has shocked everyone in the office
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb and a plural subject always
takes a plural verb. In the given sentence, the subject is “The
news”, which is singular. Hence, “has shocked everyone in the
office” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.56.(b) too exhausted to finish
‘Too + adjective + to + V 1’ is the correct grammatical structure.
Hence, ‘too exhausted to finish’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.57.(c) by bike
The preposition "by" is used to indicate the means of transport
without an article (e.g., by car, by bus, by bike). Hence, “by bike”
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.58.(b) for completing the task on time
‘For’ is a fixed preposition used after the adjective “responsible”
to indicate the duty or task. Hence, “for completing the task on
time” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.59.(a) was asked
The given sentence is an example of the passive voice of the
simple past tense. ‘Each of the candidates’ is a singular subject
Sentence Improvement
that will take ‘was’ as a singular verb, not ‘were’. Hence, ‘was
asked’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.60.(c) visited her grandparents in the countryside
The adverb ‘last month’ indicates a past event, therefore the past
form of the verb should be used instead of the present form
‘visits’. ‘Her’ is the correct possessive for the pronoun ‘she’.
Therefore, ‘visits their grandparents’ must be replaced with
‘visited her grandparents’. Hence, ‘visited her grandparents in the
countryside’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.61.(c)
advised her friend to take precautions In the given sentence, The
verb “advise” is a transitive verb that is not followed by “to”
before the object. Hence, “advised her friend to take
precautions” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.62.(b) is built of steel
We use “built of” when the material used in construction remains
visibly the same in the final structure (like wood, stone, or steel).
Hence, “is built of steel” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.63.(b) from entering the room
‘From’ is a fixed preposition used after the verb ‘prevent’ to show
restriction or stopping someone from doing something. Hence,
“from entering the room” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.64.(a) finished
The given sentence is in the past tense, therefore, ‘finish’ must
be replaced with the past form ‘finished’. Hence, ‘finished’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.65.(a) completed his work
The adverb “yesterday” refers to a specific time in the past, so
the verb should be in the simple past tense. Hence, “completed
his work” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.66.(a) doesn’t he?
According to the “Question Tag rule”, if the statement is positive,
the question tag will be negative and vice versa. However, the
sentence and the question tag must be in the same tense.
Similarly, the given sentence is positive, so the question tag will
be negative (doesn’t). Hence, ‘doesn’t he’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.67.(d) as if he were
‘As if / as though’ is used to provide an unrealistic explanation
for something that is unusual or abnormal. As per the given
sentence, the person behaves differently or unusually, and ‘being
the owner of the company’ is an unrealistic explanation (not the
actual). In this case, we use ‘were’, not ‘was’. Hence, ‘as if he
were’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.68.(b) were
“If I were … would + V 1 ” is used to introduce a hypothetical or
unreal situation expressing a wish or imagination. Therefore,
‘was’ must be replaced with ‘were’. Hence, ‘were’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.69.(a) has been living
The given sentence is an example of present perfect continuous
tense and ‘Singular subject + has been + V ’ is the correct
ing
grammatical structure for it. Hence, ‘has been living’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.70.(a) discussed the matter with
In the given sentence, the verb "consult" should be followed by a
person, so "consulted the matter with" is incorrect. Since
"consult" directly takes a person as its object. Hence, "discussed
the matter with" is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.71.(a) because of her hard work and dedication
The word "work" is generally an uncountable noun in this
context, referring to effort or labor in general. Therefore, "hard
work" is the correct and idiomatic phrasing, not "hard works".
Hence, “because of her hard work and dedication” is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.72.(b) superior to the one
There are some words that indicate comparison but do not take
‘than’. Rather, ‘to’ is used with them. For example:- superior to,
inferior to, prior to, senior to, junior to, elder to, prefer to, etc.
Hence, ‘superior to the one’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.73.(d) published several reports
In the given sentence, the helping verb ‘would have’ is used for
both ‘written’ and ‘publish’. However, the third form of the verb is
used after ‘would have’. Therefore, ‘publish’ must be replaced
with ‘published(V 3 )’. Hence, ‘published several reports’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.74.(a) that he could eat the entire meal
The construction “so … that …” is used to show a result. Here, “so
hungry” indicates that he was able to eat the entire meal. Hence,
“that he could eat the entire meal” is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.75.(a) superior to his colleague
There are some words that imply comparison but do not take
‘than’. Rather, ‘to’ is used with them. For example:- superior to,
inferior to, prior to, senior to, junior to, elder to, etc. Hence,
‘superior to his colleague’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.76.(b) will escape through
‘Will’ is a modal verb and we generally use the first form(V ) of
1
the verb with modals. Hence, ‘will escape(V ) through’ is the
1
most appropriate answer.
Sol.77.(c) completed the task in a short time
In the given sentence, the phrase “in short time” is grammatically
incorrect, because it needs the article “a” to indicate a brief
duration. Hence, “completed the task in a short time” is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.78.(a) faster than
The word “faster” is already the comparative form of “fast.”
Using “more faster” is redundant because “more” is not needed
with comparative adjectives. Hence, “faster than” is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.79.(b) had known you were coming
The given sentence is an example of a third conditional
sentence and the correct grammatical structure for it is “If +
past perfect(had + V 3)…….. Would have + V 3”. Hence, “had known
you were coming” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.80.(a) of handling
The adjective 'capable' is always followed by the preposition 'of',
which then takes a gerund (V-ing form). Hence, 'capable of
handling' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.81.(d) whom the new role will report to
When a Wh. word (who, whom, how, when, why, etc.) is used in
the middle of a sentence, the helping verb and the main verb are
Sentence Improvement
used after the subject. Therefore, ‘will’ must be used after the
subject ‘the new role’. Hence, ‘the candidate whom the new role
will report to’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.82.(b) demands to know how the critical error has
When a Wh. word (who, whom, how, when, why, etc.) is used in
the middle of a sentence, the helping verb and the main verb are
used after the subject. Therefore, ‘has’ must be used after the
subject ‘the critical error’. Hence, ‘demands to know how the
critical error has’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.83.(c) advised her friend to take precautions
In the given sentence, The verb “advise” is a transitive verb that
is not followed by “to” before the object. Hence, “advised her
friend to take precautions” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.84.(d) to marry her
When 'marry' is used as a transitive verb(with a direct object), it
does not require a preposition like 'with' or 'to'. Therefore, ‘with’
must be removed. Hence, ‘to marry her’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Q.85. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
The team performed exceptionally well, since they had prepared
diligently for months.
Matriculation Level 30/07/2025 (Shift - 1)
(a) Although (b) While (c) As (d) Therefore
Q.86. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
The committee invited several experts to throw light in the
environmental impact of the proposed construction project.
Matriculation Level 31/07/2025 (Shift - 1)
(a) on (b) into (c) at (d) outside
Q.87. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
The final results were announced, but the students rushed to
check their scores.
Matriculation Level 31/07/2025 (Shift - 1)
(a) And (b) So (c) However (d) Although
Q.88. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
The company plans to make over with the new branding strategy
next quarter.
Matriculation Level 31/07/2025 (Shift - 1)
(a) make out (b) make off (c) make do (d) make a start
Q.89. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
The team's performance was more strong in the second half of
the game.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 1)
(a) stronger (b) most strong (c) more strongly (d) stronglier
Q.90. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
It took him a long time to get over his shyness and speak in
public.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 1)
(a) get through (b) get by (c) get into (d) get out
Q.91. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
The affect of the new policy will effect positive changes in the
community.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 1)
(a) effect, affect (b) affect, affect
(c) effect, effect (d) affect, effect
Q.92. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
The proposal was innovative; and, it faced significant opposition
from conservative members.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) Moreover (b) Therefore (c) but (d) Because
Q.93. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
It was such only opportunity they had to present their case.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) a (b) an (c) the (d) too
Q.94. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
He could not enjoy the loud noise from the construction site any
longer.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) allow (b) refrain (c) endure (d) avoid
Q.95. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
The company decided to carry over with its expansion plans
despite the economic downturn.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) carry on (b) carry through (c) carry off (d) carry out
Q.96. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
She mentioned that she visits her grandparents last summer.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) visits (b) visited (c) will visit (d) would visit
Q.97. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
Volunteers have prepared to work information about the effects
of climate change.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) spread (b) act (c) confuse (d) deal
Q.98. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
Of all the candidates, Sarah is arguably the more qualified for
the demanding position.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) most qualified (b) best qualified
(c) qualified (d) very qualified
Q.99. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted in
bold.
The students tried to get by the strict rules of the library.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) Get across (b) Get around (c) Get ahead (d) Get back
Q.100. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted
in bold.
Students are not allowed to access the digital notes from their
phones and the parents are happy to witness such an open
Sentence Improvement
excess to study materials.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) excess, access (b) excess, excess
(c) access, access (d) accession, ascension
Q.101. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted
in bold.
The chef prepare gourmet meals for the restaurant's discerning
clientele.
Matriculation Level 01/08/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) prepares (b) prepared (c) preparing (d) will prepare
Q.102. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted
in bold.
Realistic, we should plan for a few more days to complete the
project, because rushing through it now might lead to mistakes.
Matriculation Level 02/08/2025 (Shift - 1)
(a) Real (b) Really (c) Realistically (d) Reality
Q.103. Choose the option that will replace the error highlighted
in bold.
She silent walked out of the room so she wouldn’t disturb
anyone.
Matriculation Level 29/08/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) tranquil (b) relaxing (c) silently (d) silence
Q.104. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
The children gathered in front the stage, waiting excitedly for the
performance to begin.
Higher Secondary 25/07/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) due to (b) in front of (c) ahead of (d) instead of
Q.105. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
The director confirmed that one of the critical issues were not
addressed in the previous meeting.
Higher Secondary 26/07/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) was not addressed (b) have not been addressed
(c) are not addressed (d) No substitution required
Q.106. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
The consequences of the sudden policy changes on local
farmers are expected to be even much significantly than
previously predicted.
Higher Secondary 28/07/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) as much significantly as previously predicted
(b) even more significantly than previously predicted
(c) even more significant than previously predicted
(d) No substitution required
Q.107. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
The captain, as well as the players, are praying for the team's
success.
Higher Secondary 29/07/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) is praying (b) have been praying
(c) were praying (d) No substitution required
Q.108. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
Either the musicians or the choir director have forgotten their
sheet music.
Higher Secondary 30/07/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) has forgotten (b) had forgotten
(c) were forgetting (d) No substitution required
Q.109. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
The chief engineer, accompanied by his assistants, are
inspecting the new machinery.
Higher Secondary 02/08/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) is inspecting (b) have been inspecting
(c) were inspecting (d) No substitution required
Q.110. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
If the engineers had designed the bridge better, the recent
collapse might prevent.
Higher Secondary 02/08/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) had prevented (b) might have prevented
(c) might have been prevented (d) might be prevented
Q.111. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
highlighted part of the sentence:
She stayed home because of she wasn’t feeling well.
Higher Secondary 29/08/2025 (Shift - 2)
(a) because (b) instead of (c) due to (d) why
Q.112. Improve the sentence by selecting the appropriate tense
of the underlined word.
We complete all the arrangements before the guests arrived for
the ceremony.
Graduate Level 24/07/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) completes (b) completed
(c) will complete (d) had completed
Q.113. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence:
He drives as worse as a newbie.
Graduate Level 25/07/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) as badly as (b) as bad as (c) so bad as (d) as worst as
Q.114. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence:
The new software performs as efficient as the older version.
Graduate Level 26/07/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) as efficiently as (b) as more efficient as
(c) so efficient as (d) as efficient than
Q.115. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence:
The patient gained consciousness by the time the ambulance
arrived.
Graduate Level 28/07/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) has gained (b) had gained (c) was gaining (d) is gained
Q.116. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence:
She would rather we submit the report by Friday, not Monday.
Graduate Level 29/07/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) submitted (b) had submitted (c) submits (d) submitting
Sentence Improvement
Q.117. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence:
Tell me which is the most easiest of the three questions.
Graduate Level 31/07/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) more easy (b) easier (c) most easy (d) easiest
Q.118. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence:
Hardly he agrees with his colleagues in meetings.
Graduate Level 02/08/2025 (Shift - 3)
(a) has he agreed (b) is he agree
(c) does he agree (d) is he agreeing
Q.119. Improve the sentence by selecting the appropriate tense
of the underlined word.
She read a book for two hours before her brother arrived.
Graduate Level 29/08/2025 (Shift - 1)
(a) has read (b) was reading (c) had been reading (d) reads
Sol.85.(c) as
'Since' is used to introduce a reason or cause. 'As' is also used to
express the reason for something. Hence, ‘as’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.86.(a) on
The correct phrase is ‘throw light on’, which means to explain or
clarify something. Hence, ‘on’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.87.(b) but
‘But’ is used to express contrast in a sentence whereas ‘so’ is
used to show the cause-effect relationship. In the given
sentence, ‘the announcement of final results’ is the cause and
the effect is students rushing to check their score. Hence, ‘so’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.88.(d) make a start
The phrase 'make a start' means to begin something. The given
sentence states that the company plans to begin the new
branding strategy. 'Make over' means to transform or to transfer
ownership, which doesn't fit the context of starting a strategy.
Hence, ‘make a start’ is the most appropriate answer.
(a) 'make out' means to understand or discern.
(b) 'make off' means to leave quickly.
(c) 'make do' means to manage with whatever is available.
Sol.89.(a) stronger
‘Stronger’ is the correct comparative degree of ‘strong’. Hence,
‘stronger’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.90.(a) get through
The phrasal verb 'get through' in this context means to overcome
or successfully deal with a difficult period or situation. The given
sentence states that it took him a long time to overcome his
shyness and speak in public. Hence, ‘get through’ is the most
appropriate answer.
(b) 'get by' means to manage with difficulty.
(c) 'get into' means to enter or become involved in.
(d) 'get out' means to leave.
Sol.91.(a) effect, affect
In the sentence, the first blank requires a noun, and the noun
‘effect’ means a result or consequence. The second blank
requires a verb, and the verb ‘affect’ means to influence or have
an impact on.Therefore, the correct replacement of the
highlighted words is ‘effect, affect’.
Sol.92.(c) But
In the given sentence, the two clauses ("The proposal was
innovative" and "it faced significant opposition") present
contrasting ideas. 'But' is a contrasting conjunction. Hence, ‘but’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.93.(c) the
The phrase "only opportunity" refers to a specific, unique
opportunity. When referring to something unique or specific that
is clearly understood, the definite article 'the' is required.
Therefore, ‘such’ must be replaced with ‘the’. Hence, ‘the’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.94.(c) endure
‘Endure’ means to suffer something painful or difficult patiently.
The given sentence states that he could not endure the loud
noise from the construction site any longer. Hence, ‘endure’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.95.(a) carry on
The phrasal verb 'carry on' means to continue an activity or task.
The company decided to continue with its expansion plans.
'Carry over' means to postpone or transfer to a later time or
place, which does not fit in this context. Hence, ‘carry on’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.96.(b) visited
The given sentence is in the simple past tense as indicated by
the adverb ‘last summer’. Therefore, the past form of the verb,
‘visited’ will be used. Hence, ‘visited’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.97.(a) spread
‘Spread’ means to tell something to a lot of people. The given
sentence states that volunteers have prepared to spread
information about the effects of climate change. Hence, ‘spread’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.98.(a) most qualified
Superlative degree is used to express the highest degree of
quality of a person or thing among all. ‘Most qualified’ is the
correct superlative degree. Hence, ‘most qualified’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.99.(b) get around
‘Get around’ means to find a way to bypass a rule or problem.
The given sentence states that the students tried to get around
the strict rules of the library. Hence, ‘get around’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.100.(c) access, access
We generally use the first form of the verb after the preposition
‘to’. ‘Access’ is a verb, which means to be able to get or use
something. Further, ‘open’ is an adjective which requires a noun.
‘Access’ as a noun means the ability to obtain something.
Hence, ‘access, access’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.101.(a) prepares
In the given sentence, ‘The chef’ is a singular subject that will
take ‘prepares’ as a singular verb. Hence, ‘prepares’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.102.(c) Realistically
Sentence Improvement
In the given sentence, we need an adverb to modify the verb
‘plan’. Therefore, ‘realistic’ must be replaced with the adverb
‘realistically’. ‘Realistically’ means in a practical or sensible way.
Hence, ‘realistically’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.103.(c) silently
The given sentence needs an adverb ‘silently’ to modify the verb
‘walked’, not the adjective ‘silent’. Hence, ‘silently’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.104.(b) in front of
‘In front of + noun’ is the correct prepositional phrase. Hence, ‘in
front of’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.105.(a) was not addressed
“One of + plural noun + singular verb” is the correct grammatical
structure. Therefore, ‘were’ must be replaced with the singular
verb ‘was’. Hence, ‘was not addressed’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.106.(c) even more significant than previously predicted
Comparative degree is used with ‘than’. Therefore, ‘much’ must
be replaced with ‘more’. The given sentence needs an adjective
‘significant’ to describe the noun ‘consequence’, not the adverb
‘consequently’. Hence, ‘even more significant than previously
predicted’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.107.(a) is praying
When a singular subject ('The captain') is followed by a phrase
like 'as well as', 'along with', 'in addition to', etc., the verb must
agree with the first subject (the captain). Therefore, the singular
verb 'is' will be used. Hence, ‘is praying’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.108.(a) has forgotten
“Neither….nor/ Either….or” is a conjunction pair that is used only
for two subjects, and the verb is supplied according to the
subject closest to the verb. This is called the rule of proximity. In
the given sentence, the subject closest to the verb is ‘the choir
director’, which is singular. Therefore, ‘have’ must be replaced
with ‘has’. Hence, ‘has forgotten’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.109.(a) is inspecting
When a singular subject ('The chief engineer') is followed by a
phrase like 'accompanied by', 'along with', 'as well as', etc., the
verb must agree with the first subject. Therefore, the singular
verb 'is' will be used. Hence, ‘is inspecting’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.110.(c) might have been prevented
The given sentence is an example of a third conditional
sentence and the if-clause is in the past perfect tense ('If +
subject + had + V 3 ). The main clause is in the passive voice and
‘might have + been + V 3 ’ is the correct grammatical structure for
it. Hence, ‘might have been prevented’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.111.(a) because
‘Because of’ is followed by a noun phrase but in the given
sentence, we have a clause afterwards. Therefore, ‘because’ will
be used as a conjunction to join the two clauses. Hence,
‘because’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.112.(d) had completed
If two actions took place in the past then the 1st action must be
in the Past perfect tense(Had + V ) and the 2nd action must be
3
in the Simple Past tense(V 2 ). In the given sentence, ‘completing
all the arrangements’ is the first action. Hence, ‘had
completed(V 3 )’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.113.(a) as badly as
When comparing two things using 'as...as', an adjective or
adverb should be in its positive degree. Since 'drives' is a verb,
an adverb is required to describe how he drives. ‘Badly’ is a
positive degree adverb. Hence, ‘as badly as’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.114.(a) as efficiently as
When comparing two things using 'as...as', an adjective or
adverb should be in its positive degree. Since 'performs' is a
verb, an adverb is required to describe how it performs.
‘Efficiently’ is a positive degree adverb. Hence, ‘as efficiently as’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.115.(b) had gained
‘By the time’ is used to indicate the completion of one action
before another. ‘By the time + simple past tense, … past perfect
tense’ is the correct grammatical structure. Therefore,
‘gained(V 2 )’ must be replaced with ‘had gained(V 3 )’. Hence, ‘had
gained’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.116.(a) submitted
The phrase "would rather + subject + verb" is used to express a
preference for someone else's action. When referring to a
preference for the present or future, simple past tense(V ) is
2
used after the subject. Hence, ‘submitted(V )’ is the most
2
appropriate answer.
Sol.117.(d) easiest
‘Easiest’ is the correct superlative degree of ‘easy’. Hence,
‘easiest’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.118.(c) does he agree
When sentences begin with negative adverbs like 'Hardly',
'Rarely', 'Seldom', etc., inversion of the subject and auxiliary verb
is required. For simple present tense, the auxiliary verb 'do' or
'does' is used. Since the subject is 'he' (singular), 'does' is
required. Hence, ‘does he agree’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.119.(c) had been reading
Past perfect continuous tense(had been + V 3 ) is used to
describe an action that has been happening for some time in the
past before being interrupted by another action. Hence, ‘had
been reading(V 3 )’ is the most appropriate answer.
Q.120. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
By the time we will reach, the concert will have started.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) we reached (b) No improvement
(c) we reach (d) we have reached
Q.121. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
The old lady was unable to climb stairs because her legs is
aching constantly since morning.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 1)
Sentence Improvement
(a) is been aching constantly (b) have been aching constantly
(c) Had been aches constantly (d) No substitution required
Q.122. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
The team has been preparing for the match since two months
without a break.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) for two months (b) till two months
(c) up to two month (d) until two months
Q.123. Select the option that correctly replaces the underlined
phrase in the following sentence:
The doctor gave the patient some medications after he felt
some pain on his left knee.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) did feel (b) has felt (c) had felt (d) was felt
Q.124. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The plane landed in the airport.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) to the airport (b) into the airport
(c) at the airport (d) towards airport
Q.125. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
If I was you, I would accept the offer.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) am you (b) have been you (c) were you (d) would be you
Q.126. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
I am not used with this kind of work.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) to this kind of work (b) about this kind of work
(c) at this kind of work (d) for this kind of work
Q.127. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The teacher explained him the topic.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) taught him the topic (b) told him the topic
(c) explained the topic to him (d) explained to him the topic
Q.128. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He said me a lie.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) told me a lie (b) said to me lie
(c) told me lie (d) said lie
Q.129. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
Each of the candidates have submitted their documents for
verification.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) had submitted their document
(b) No substitution required
(c) has submitted their documents
(d) is submitted their documents
Q.130. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
The research paper was full of errors because the data is not
verified by any expert.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) has not been verified (b) is not being verified yet
(c) No substitution required (d) was not verified
Q.131. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She said that she will go to market later.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) shall go (b) could go (c) can go (d) would go
Q.132. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
If I was you, I would consult a specialist.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) No substitution required (b) am you
(c) would be you (d) were you
Q.133. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He has much works to finish.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) a lot of work (b) plenty works (c) many works (d) lot of tasks
Q.134. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He denied to help me.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) help to me (b) for helping me
(c) helping me (d) to helping me
Q.135. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The man is blind of one eye.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) with one eye (b) by one eye (c) in one eye (d) from one eye
Q.136. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He is a honest man.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) the honest (b) an honest (c) one honest (d) honest
Q.137. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He came here with a view to meet his old friend.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) to meet with (b) for meeting
(c) in view to meet (d) with a view to meeting
Q.138. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The manager discussed on the issue in detail.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) discussed the issue (b) discussed about the issue
(c) explained the issue (d) talked over the issue
Q.139. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
Each of the students have a book.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) has (b) had (c) gets (d) is having
Sentence Improvement
Q.140. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The higher you go, the cooler it get.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) cooler it gets (b) cooler it getting
(c) more cooler it gets (d) coolest it becomes
Q.141. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She prevented me to go there.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) for going (b) against going (c) going to (d) from going
Q.142. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
Scarcely had I left when it was starting to rain.
SSC Stenographer 06/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) had started (b) was begun (c) did start (d) started
Q.143. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
This is the boy who he stole the purse.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) who had stole (b) which stole (c) whom stole (d) who stole
Q.144. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She is my cousin sister.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) cousin sibling (b) own cousin (c) cousin girl (d) cousin
Q.145. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
She aren't believe in wasting time during working hours.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) isn't believe (b) No substitution required
(c) wasn't believes (d) doesn't believe
Q.146. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She is married with a doctor.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) in a doctor (b) to a doctor
(c) by a doctor (d) from a doctor
Q.147. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
I came to know this from a friend.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) to know this through (b) to know that from
(c) to know of it from (d) to know it by
Q.148. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
Seldom we have seen such a performance.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) had we seen (b) did we saw
(c) have we seen (d) we had seen
Q.149. Choose the most suitable option to replace the
underlined part of the sentence. If the sentence is already
correct, select 'No substitution required'.
The students was asked to submit their assignments by Friday.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) are asked to submitted their Assignments
(b) No substitution required
(c) were asked to submit their Assignments
(d) will asked to submit their assignments
Q.150. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The doctor advised that he takes rest.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) must takes rest (b) take rest
(c) take the rest (d) should takes rest
Q.151. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
They returned back to their home.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) returned to house (b) came back to home
(c) returned home (d) went back home
Q.152. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
No sooner I reached the platform than the train left.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) I had no sooner reached (b) No sooner did I reach
(c) I no sooner reached (d) No sooner had I reached
Q.153. Choose the correct option to replace the underlined
word/phrase in the following sentence:
The car is moving very fastly on the road.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) fastliness (b) quickliness (c) fast (d) quicker
Q.154. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The meeting will begin by 3 PM.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) on (b) from (c) at (d) around
Q.155. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She is confident to win the match.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) in winning (b) of winning the match
(c) in win the match (d) to winning the match
Q.156. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She prefers to stay at home than go out.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) to staying home than going out
(b) staying home rather going out
(c) staying at home to going out
(d) to stay at home to going out
Q.157. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
Hardly he had reached the station when the train left.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) He had hardly reached (b) Hardly had he reached
(c) No sooner he reached (d) He hardly had reached
Q.158. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He worked very hardly to pass the exam.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) sincerely (b) regularly (c) hard (d) harder
Sentence Improvement
Q.159. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
I prefer tea than coffee.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) instead coffee (b) to coffee (c) rather coffee (d) over coffee
Q.160. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He is one of those players who has scored the most goals.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) have scored (b) had been scoring
(c) scores (d) had scored
Q.161. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He insisted to go home.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) going on (b) upon going (c) that he goes (d) on going
Q.162. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
I am used to eat late at night.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) for eating (b) eating (c) to eating (d) in eating
Q.163. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
Hardly I had entered the room when the phone rang.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) Hardly had I entered (b) Hardly was I entering
(c) I had hardly entered (d) I hardly had entered
Q.164. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
It is high time you leave the room.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) have left the room (b) had left the room
(c) left the room (d) leaves the room
Q.165. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
This session is an improvement rather the previous one.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) best (b) more good (c) very better (d) over
Q.166. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The teacher asked that who was absent.
SSC Stenographer 07/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) that whom (b) which student (c) who (d) whose
Q.167. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The price of petrol has increased yesterday.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) rose yesterday (b) increased yesterday
(c) has been increased yesterday (d) risen yesterday
Q.168. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
I wish I am taller.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) were taller (b) was taller
(c) would be taller (d) could be taller
Q.169. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
We waited for him since two hours.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) until two hours (b) from two hours
(c) by two hours (d) for two hours
Q.170. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The wall is decorated by posters.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) full of posters (b) painted in posters
(c) decorated with posters (d) covered in posters
Q.171. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
Had I known about the delay, I will wait.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) would have waited (b) will have waited
(c) would waited (d) waited
Q.172. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She said me the truth.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) told me (b) said to me (c) says me (d) spoke to me
Q.173. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He is living here since 2020.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 1)
(a) He is staying here since 2020.
(b) He has been living here since 2020.
(c) He lives here since 2020.
(d) He is here since 2020.
Q.174. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He behaves as if he knows everything.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) known everything (b) knew everything
(c) has known everything (d) have known all
Q.175. Choose the correct option that replaces the underline
word/phrase in the following sentence:
Sujata put in the best dress for the party.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) put off (b) put across (c) put on (d) put out
Q.176. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She did her work very good.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) very well (b) too well (c) quite good (d) really great
Q.177. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She was not enough tall to play basketball.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) too short (b) not tall (c) very short (d) not tall enough
Q.178. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She succeeded by virtue of her talent.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) owing of (b) because (c) cause of (d) due to
Q.179. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
Sentence Improvement
part of the sentence.
She has did her homework already.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) made homework (b) done her homework
(c) made her homework (d) doing her homework
Q.180. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
We enjoyed during the party last night.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) have enjoyed in party (b) enjoyed ourselves at the party
(c) had enjoyment during party (d) enjoyed in the party
Q.181. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
You must refrain to smoke.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) quit from smoke (b) stop to smoke
(c) stop of smoking (d) refrain from smoking
Q.182. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The criminal was accused for theft.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) of theft (b) on theft (c) about theft (d) with theft
Q.183. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
I have visited Delhi last year.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 2)
(a) had visited (b) visited (c) was visiting (d) did visit
Q.184. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
The fiction and non fictional book, that I borrowed, was
interesting.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) whom I borrowed (b) what I borrowed
(c) whose I borrowed (d) which I borrowed
Q.185. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
None of the option seems appropriate.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) Any of the optionals (b) No optionals
(c) No one of the (d) None of the options
Q.186. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
She gave me many informations.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) many pieces of information (b) lots of knowledge
(c) several data (d) much information
Q.187. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He did not knew the answer.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) knows (b) know (c) knowing (d) knews
Q.188. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
According to the teacher, the Earth is revolving.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) spoke that the Earth is round (b) said that the Earth is round
(c) the Earth is round. (d) told that Earth was round
Q.189. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He doesn't go to shopping as often as he used to.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) seldom goes at shop (b) go shopping
(c) rarely goes to purchase (d) is rarely going to shop
Q.190. Select the most appropriate option to improve the bold
part of the sentence.
He is enough rich to buy a car.
SSC Stenographer 08/08/2025 (Shift 3)
(a) rich too much (b) sufficiently rich
(c) too rich (d) rich enough
Sol.120.(c) we reach
When we talk about an action that will be completed before a
specific time in the future, simple present tense is used to
indicate that specific time. ‘Plural subject + V 1 ’ is the correct
structure of simple present tense. Hence, ‘we reach(V 1 )’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.121.(b) have been aching constantly
‘Since’ is used in present perfect continuous tense to denote an
action that started in the past and is still going on. “Plural
subject + have been + V ” is the correct structure of present
ing
perfect continuous tense. Hence, “have been aching constantly”
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.122.(a) for two months
‘For’ is used for a definite period of time.
For example:- five years, six months, ten days, etc. ‘Since’ is used
to denote a time in the past when something started. Hence, ‘for
two months’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.123.(c) had felt
If two actions took place in the past then the 1st action must be
in the Past perfect tense(Had + V 3) and the 2nd action must be
in the Simple Past tense(V 2). In the given sentence, ‘feeling
some pain on the left knee’ is the first action. Hence, ‘had
felt(V )’ is the most appropriate answer.
3
Sol.124.(c) at the airport
‘At’ is used to denote a specific place. ‘In’ is used to indicate the
location or presence of an object inside something. ‘Airport’ is a
specific place where planes land. Hence, ‘at the airport’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.125.(c) were you
The phrase ‘If i were’ is generally used in the subjunctive mood
to talk about possibilities, wishes, or conditions that are contrary
to reality. ‘If I were… (would + V 1 ) / (would have + V 3 )’ is the
correct grammatical structure. Hence, ‘were you’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.126.(a) to this kind of work
The phrase "used to" means accustomed to or familiar with
something. Therefore, "I am not used to this kind of work" is the
correct grammatical structure.
Sol.127.(c) explained the topic to him
The verb ‘explain’ does not take a direct object pronoun (like
him) immediately after it. Therefore, the correct form is
explained the topic to him.
Sentence Improvement
Sol.128.(a) told me a lie
In the given sentence, we need to say that he lied to me. The
correct way is He told me a lie. Therefore, option (a) told me a lie
is the correct answer.
Sol.129.(c) has submitted their documents
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, ‘Each of +
Plural Subject + Singular verb’ is grammatically the correct
structure. Therefore, ‘Each of the candidates has submitted their
documents’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.130.(d) was not verified
The sentence is in the past tense because it refers to a research
paper that had already been written. Therefore, the verb phrase
must also be in the past tense. Hence, ‘was not verified’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.131.(d) would go
The reporting verb said is in the past tense, so the future form
will go changes to would go in indirect speech. Hence, option (d)
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.132.(d) were you
“If I were …. V 2 (past form of the verb)” is the correct
grammatical structure for a conditional sentence. Hence, ‘was’
will be replaced with ‘were’ to make the given sentence
grammatically correct.
Sol.133.(a) a lot of work
"Work" is an uncountable noun, so we cannot say "much works"
or "many works." The correct way to express a large quantity is
"a lot of work." Hence, option (a) is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.134.(c) helping me
The verb deny is followed by a gerund (-ing form), not an
infinitive. Therefore, the correct sentence is “He denied helping
me”.
Sol.135.(c) in one eye
The preposition "in" is used to indicate blindness in one of the
eyes. Hence, ‘in one eye’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.136.(b) an honest
The article ‘an’ will be used as the word ‘honest’ begins with a
vowel sound. Hence, ‘an honest’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.137.(d) with a view to meeting
There are some phrases that are always followed by a
gerund(V -ing ). Such phrases are ‘with a view to, looking forward
to, in addition to, accustomed to, habituated to, be used to, prone
to, etc.’ Hence, ‘with a view to meeting(V- ing )’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.138.(a) discussed the issue
‘Discussed’ is a transitive verb and we do not use any
preposition to denote its object. Therefore, ‘on’ must be
removed. Hence, ‘discussed the issue’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.139.(a) has
‘Everyone/each/ every/ nothing/ everything/ anything/ either/
neither’ represents a singular noun. Therefore, singular verbs will
be used with them. ‘Have’ must be replaced with ‘has’ in the
given sentence. Hence, ‘has’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.140.(a) cooler it gets
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb. In the given sentence, ‘it’
is a singular subject that will take ‘gets’ as a singular verb.
Hence, ‘cooler it gets’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.141.(d) from going
The verb “prevent / refrain / abstain” always takes the
preposition ‘from’ followed by the -ing form of the verb. Hence,
‘from going’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.142.(d) started
We use simple past tense after “when” to indicate the time of
another past event. ‘Started’ is the past form of the verb. Hence,
‘started’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.143.(d) who stole
In the given sentence, the pronoun “he” is unnecessary, as “who”
already acts as the subject of the relative clause referring to the
boy. Therefore, the correct sentence is “This is the boy who stole
the purse.”
Sol.144.(d) cousin
The word “cousin” already indicates a family relationship, so
adding “sister” is unnecessary and redundant. Hence, “cousin” is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.145.(d) doesn't believe
In the given sentence, “aren’t believe” is not a proper verb form
for the subject “She.” The correct negative form is “doesn’t,”
followed by the base verb “believe.” Hence, “doesn’t believe” is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.146.(b) to a doctor
‘To’ is the fixed preposition used with the adjective ‘married’ to
indicate the person one is married to. Hence, ‘married to a
doctor’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.147.(a) to know this through
In the given sentence, the phrase “from a friend” is incorrect. The
correct preposition to indicate the source of information is
“through.” Hence, “to know this through” is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.148.(c) have we seen
When a sentence begins with negative words like “seldom, no
sooner, never, not only, rarely, scarcely, barely, hardly”, the helping
verb is placed before the subject. This is called inversion. Hence,
“have we seen” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.149.(c) were asked to submit their assignments
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb and a plural subject always
takes a plural verb. In the given sentence, the subject “students”
is plural, so the correct auxiliary verb should be “were” instead of
“was.” Hence, option (c) is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.150.(b) take rest
In the given sentence, the clause follows “advised that,” which
requires the subjunctive mood. In the subjunctive, the base form
of the verb (take) is used, not “takes.” Hence, option (b) is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.151.(c) returned home
In the given sentence, the word “returned” already implies “going
back,” so adding “back” makes it redundant. Also, we do not
normally use “to their home” with “returned.” Therefore, the
correct form is “returned home.”
Sentence Improvement
Sol.152.(d) No sooner had I reached
If a sentence starts with a negative word (hardly / barely /
scarcely / rarely / no sooner / not only / never / little), the correct
grammatical structure is “Negative word + Helping verb +
Subject + Main Verb”. We generally use past perfect tense(had +
V 3 ) with ‘no sooner’. Hence, ‘No sooner had I reached(V 3 )’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.153.(c) fast
In English, some words function as both adjectives and adverbs
and ‘fast’ is one of them. The word ‘fastly’ is incorrect. Hence,
‘fast’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.154.(c) at
The preposition ‘at’ is used to indicate a specific point of time. 3
PM indicates a specific time. Hence, ‘at’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.155.(b) of winning the match
The adjective ‘confident’ is always followed by the preposition
‘of’ when expressing certainty about something. Hence, ‘of
winning the match’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.156.(c) staying at home to going out
The verb ‘prefer’ is followed by the gerund (-ing form) and takes
the structure prefer X to Y. Hence, ‘She prefers staying at home
to going out’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.157.(b) Hardly had he reached
If a sentence starts with a negative word (hardly / barely /
scarcely / rarely / no sooner / not only / never / little), the correct
grammatical structure is “Negative word + Helping verb +
Subject + Main Verb”. Hence, ‘Hardly had he reached’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.158.(c) hard
‘Hardly’ is a negative word but we need a positive word here. The
adverb ‘hard’ is used in the context of putting a lot of effort into
something. The given sentence talks about working very hard to
pass the examination. Hence, ‘hard’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.159.(b) to coffee
‘To’ is a fixed preposition used with the verb ‘prefer’. Hence, ‘to
coffee’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.160.(a) have scored
The phrase "one of those players who…" refers to "players," which
is plural. Therefore, the verb following "who" must agree with the
plural noun "players." Hence, "have scored" is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.161.(d) on going
The verb ‘insist’ is followed by the preposition ‘on’ + gerund
(V‑ing). Hence, ‘insisted on going home’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.162.(c) to eating
The phrase “used to” when expressing a habit is followed by a
gerund (-ing form). In the given sentence, “eat” should be
replaced with “eating.” Therefore, the corrected sentence is "I am
used to eating late at night."
Sol.163.(a) Hardly had I entered
If a sentence starts with a negative word (hardly / barely /
scarcely / rarely / no sooner / not only / never / little), the correct
grammatical structure is “Negative word + Helping verb +
Subject + Main Verb”. Hence, ‘Hardly had I entered’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.164.(c) left the room
The phrase “It is high time” is followed by a past tense verb to
indicate that an action should be done immediately. Hence, ‘left
the room' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.165.(d) over
The correct phrase is “an improvement over” when comparing
something with a previous version. In the given sentence,
“rather” should be replaced with “over” to convey the intended
comparison. Hence, the corrected sentence is "This session is
an improvement over the previous one."
Sol.166.(c) who
The word 'that' is unnecessary because 'asked' can be directly
followed by an interrogative word like 'who'. Hence, 'who' is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.167.(b) increased yesterday
In the given sentence, “yesterday” refers to a specific past time.
With specific past time expressions, we use the simple past
tense. Therefore, the correct form is ‘ increased yesterday.’
Sol.168.(a) were taller
The phrase “I wish” is used in the subjunctive mood to express
desires. The correct structure is “I wish + simple past.”
Therefore, the correct sentence should be “I wish I were taller.”
Sol.169.(d) for two hours
The sentence is about an action continuing for a period of time,
so the correct preposition is for. Therefore, the correct form is
“for two hours.”
Sol.170.(c) decorated with posters
‘With’ is the fixed preposition used with ‘decorated.’ Therefore,
‘decorated with posters’ is the correct form.
Sol.171.(a) would have waited
The sentence is a third conditional. The structure is If + past
perfect (had + V3) … would have + V3. Therefore, the correct
form is “would have waited.”
Sol.172.(a) told me
The verb “say” is not directly followed by an object like “me.” To
convey the meaning correctly, we use “tell someone something.”
Therefore, the correct sentence is “She told me the truth.”
Sol.173.(b) He has been living here since 2020.
When an action started in the past and continues up to the
present, we use the present perfect continuous tense (has/have
been + ing verb). Therefore, the correct sentence is “He has been
living here since 2020.”
Sol.174.(b) knew everything
Simple past tense is used after the phrase ‘as if / as though’.
‘Knew’ is the past form of the verb ‘know’. Hence, ‘knew
everything’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.175.(c) put on
The phrasal verb ‘put on’ means to wear a dress. The given
sentence states that Sujata put on the best dress for the party.
Hence, ‘put on’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.176.(a) very well
Sentence Improvement
The given sentence needs an adverb ‘well’ to modify the verb
‘work’, not the adjective ‘good’. Hence, ‘very well’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.177.(d) not tall enough
The adverb ‘enough’ is unique as it is used after the adjective.
Here, ‘enough’ will be used after the adjective ‘tall’. Hence, ‘not
tall enough’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.178.(d) due to
The phrases ‘due to’ and ‘by virtue of’ are both similar in meaning
as they tell us the reason or cause. Similarly, in the given
sentence, her talent is the reason for her success. Hence, ‘due
to’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.179.(b) done her homework
With ‘has/have/had’, the third form of the verb is used. ‘Done’ is
the correct third form. Hence, ‘done her homework’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.180.(b) enjoyed ourselves at the party
There are some verbs that take a reflexive pronoun if these are
used without an object. For example:- enjoy, avail, hurt, resign,
introduce. The pronoun ‘we’ takes the reflexive pronoun
‘ourselves’. Hence, ‘enjoyed ourselves at the party’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.181.(d) refrain from smoking
‘From’ is a fixed preposition used with the verb ‘refrain / abstain /
prevent’. Hence, ‘refrain from smoking’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.182.(a) of theft
‘Of’ is a fixed preposition used with the verb ‘accused’. Hence, ‘of
theft’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.183.(b) visited
‘Last year’ denotes simple past tense. The past form of the verb
‘visited’ will be used in simple past tense. Hence, ‘visited’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.184.(d) which I borrowed
‘Which’ is used after a comma to provide additional information
about something. In the given sentence, it has been used to
provide additional information about the fiction and non-fiction
books. Hence, ‘which I borrowed’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.185.(d) None of the options
“None/one/any/many/either/neither + of + plural noun” is the
correct grammatical structure. Therefore, the plural noun
‘options’ should be used. Hence, ‘None of the options’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.186.(a) many pieces of information
‘Information’ is an uncountable noun, so its plural cannot be
formed. However, we can use the phrase “pieces of” to convey a
plural meaning. Hence, ‘many pieces of information’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.187.(b) know
With “do/does/did”, the first form of the verb is used. Hence,
‘know(V 1)’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.188.(c) the Earth is round
The word ‘round’ is an adjective describing the shape of the
Earth. Hence, “the Earth is round” is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.189.(b) go shopping
After verbs of movement like go, come, walk, when indicating an
activity, use the base verb without ‘to’:/ E.g. - go shopping, go
swimming, go running. Hence, ‘go shopping’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.190.(d) rich enough
The adverb ‘enough’ is always placed after the adjective. In the
given sentence, the adverb ‘enough’ modifies the meaning of the
adjective ‘rich’. Hence, ‘rich enough’ is the most appropriate
answer.
eduquity-based pattern (ebp)
Questions (191 to 285)
Q.191. In case everybody has left the office, Ashutosh is still
busy at his laptop.
(a) Even though (b) But for
(c) In spite of (d) No improvement required
Q.192. She had hoped that she would be able qualifying the CAT
with a high percentile, but something went amiss.
(a) would be able to qualify
(b) No improvement required
(c) will be able to qualify
(d) would be able to be qualifying
Q.193. The schoolroom into which he took me was the most
forlorn and desolate place I am ever seeing.
(a) I have ever seen (b) I have ever seeing
(c) I am ever seen (d) No improvement required
Q.194. The teacher along with the students were crossing the
river, when the boat capsized.
(a) No improvement required
(b) with the students were crossing
(c) along with the students was crossing
(d) as well as the students were crossing
Q.195. She is allergic from peanuts, so she always checks food
labels carefully.
(a) She is allergic with peanuts (b) She is allergic to peanuts
(c) She is allergical from peanuts (d) No improvement required
Q.196. The doctor prescribes antibiotics and a cough syrup to
me when I had severe cough and cold.
(a) was prescribing (b) are prescribing
(c) No improvement required (d) prescribed
Q.197. She runs more faster than her brother in the track events.
(a) runs faster than (b) runs more fast than
(c) No improvement required (d) runs fast than
Q.198. Traffic is always remaining heavy in this part of Delhi.
(a) No improvement required (b) have always remained
(c) has always been remaining (d) always remains
Q.199. I saw that movie last week and it was really interesting.
(a) I seen that movie (b) No improvement required
(c) I see that movie (d) I was seeing that movie
Q.200. The movie was not only interesting but also it was very
suspenseful.
(a) but also was more suspenseful
Sentence Improvement
(b) but also it is very suspenseful
(c) No improvement required
(d) but also very suspenseful
Q.201. Since last evening, the boy has been complaining with
pain in his legs.
(a) of (b) No improvement required (c) from (d) for
Q.202. He asked the speaker some questions until the session.
(a) during (b) through (c) while (d) No improvement required
Q.203. Last evening I have gone to the theatre to see a
performance.
(a) I was going (b) I went
(c) No improvement required (d) I am gone
Q.204. John was absent from the meeting because he was sick,
nor did he inform anyone.
(a) and did not he inform anyone
(b) nor did he informed anyone
(c) No improvement required
(d) but he did not inform anyone
Q.205. Linguists say that this method helps accelerate language
learning.
(a) No improvement required
(b) this method helps accelerated
(c) this method help accelerate
(d) this method helping accelerating
Q.206. Identify the errors in the given sentence and choose the
sentence that rectifies these errors.
I have known her for many years. This time, she took unusual
decision in unprejudiced way.
(a) I have known her for many years. This time, she took an
unusual decision in a unprejudiced way.
(b) I have known her for many years. This time, she took an
unusual decision in an unprejudiced way.
(c) I have known her for many years. This time, she took a
unusual al decision decision in in an unprejudiced way.
(d) I have known her for many years. This time, she took unusual
decision in an unprejudiced way.
Q.207. My mom made her muffins, but she didn't eat none.
(a) she did eat none (b) she did ate many
(c) she didn't eat any (d) she didn't ate any
Q.208. Identify the error in the given sentence and select the
correct sentence from the given options.
Tide pool is a isolated pocket of water that is formed when sea
water becomes trapped as tide goes out.
(a) A tide pool is a isolated pocket of water that is formed when
sea water becomes trapped as a tide goes out.
(b) A tide pool is an isolated pocket of water that is formed
when
sea water becomes trapped as the tide goes out.
(c) Tide pool is isolated pocket of water that is formed when sea
water becomes trapped as a tide goes out.
(d) The tide pool is isolated pocket of water that is formed when
sea water becomes trapped as tide goes out.
Q.209. He behaves if he were a king.
(a) will be behaving as (b) could be behaving as
(c) behaves as if (d) has been behaving as
Q.210. What do you like to do on your free days other than to
watching movies?
(a) watch movie (b) watching movies
(c) watches movies (d) having watched movies
Q.211. Select the correct version of the following sentence.
He would be meet us next week.
(a) He would be meets us next week.
(b) He would not be met us next week.
(c) He will be meet us next week.
(d) He will be meeting us next week.
Q.212. While I was waiting for Asha for shopping, I spilled
lemonade on my new trousers
(a) to hold shop (b) to shop
(c) to shopper (d) to see shopping
Q.213. Whether she wishes to relocate to Mumbai or continues
to live here are her personal decisions.
(a) is her personal decisio (b) were her personal decisions
(c) No substitution required (d) have her personal decision
Q.214. He gave his heart and soul to make the entire show a
success.
(a) practical experience (b) partially useful knowledge
(c) offer of peace and harmony (d) entire energy and effort
Q.215. Select the most appropriate option that can substitute
(replace) the bracketed segment in the following sentence.
I look forward (see) you soon.
(a) into see (b) to seeing (c) to see (d) on seeing
Q.216. Harish is clever than wise.
(a) cleverest than (b) more cleverer than
(c) clever as (d) more clever than
Q.217. Select the most appropriate phrasal verb that can
substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The firefighters tried their best to extinguish the fire.
(a) put off (b) put in (c) put out (d) put on
Q.218. Research in Social Sciences is plagued nowadays on
gloomy definitions and measurements.
(a) nowadays during gloomy definitions
(b) nowadays onto gloomy definitions
(c) nowadays by gloomy definitions
(d) nowadays amid gloomy definitions
Q.219. Raghav, who studies tourism at present, is planning to go
abroad after his graduation.
(a) will study (b) study (c) studied (d) is studying
Q.220. Placing a huge magnet atop the temple pose to being the
biggest hurdle for the masons.
(a) No improvement required (b) posing as be
(c) poses for being (d) posed to be
Q.221. One of the most horrified serials of the Indian television
industry was broadcast twenty years ago.
(a) most horrifying serials (b) most horror serials
(c) horrified serials (d) more horrify serials
Q.222. Monika said to her mother that, "I have passed the
examination."
(a) Monika said to her mother that, "I am passed
(b) Monika said to her mother, "I have passed
(c) No improvement required
Sentence Improvement
(d) Monika said to her mother that, "she has passed
Q.223. If she had gone to the party, she could have met Amit.
(a) No substitution required (b) had go to the party
(c) have went to the party (d) has gone to the party
Q.224. Heba dropped of the club unexpectedly to say hello and
catch up.
(a) dropped for the club unexpectedly
(b) dropped besides the club unexpectedly
(c) dropped by the club unexpectedly
(d) dropped between the club unexpectedly
Q.225. Solving the riddle given by our teacher is farther beyond
our capacity.
(a) fair (b) fare (c) farthest (d) far
Q.226. Rohit Sharma is better than more other batsman in the
world.
(a) the best batsmen
(b) better batsmen
(c) better than most other batsmen
(d) as good as the most other batsmen
Q.227. There have been numerous attempts made by the
citizens to restore parity.
(a) No substitution (b) Most numerous
(c) More numerous (d) Quite numerous
Q.228. The given sentence has an error. Select the option that
correctly rectifies the error.
India is not on war with Pakistan.
(a) at Pakistan (b) for Pakistan (c) not at (d) not of
Q.229. The following sentence contains an error. Select the
option that correctly rectifies the error.
The robbers stabbed him by a sharp knife and he started
bleeding profusely on the spot.
(a) The robbers stabbed her (b) but he started bleeding
(c) profusely from the spot (d) with a sharp knife
Q.230. The intersection of nature conservation and social justice
is evident in efforts to ensure that marginalised communities
and other backward classes should have equal access to natural
reserves.
(a) Manifest in actions to redesign
(b) Unclear in initiatives to safeguard
(c) apparent in endeavours to guarantee
(d) obvious in attempts to recollect
Q.231. I had to choose the best of the two options available.
(a) good of (b) better of (c) better than (d) best than
Q.232. After the heavy rains last Thursday, the water in the river
raised another three feet.
(a) rose another three feet (b) will raise another three feet
(c) risen another three feet (d) raise another three feet
Q.233. Ramgopal is having a very big house in Mumbai.
(a) having (b) have (c) has (d) were having
Q.234. I have never had and never will be dependent on him.
(a) has never been (b) never has
(c) never been (d) was never being
Q.235. Rahul was angry of his brother as he broke his pen.
(a) from (b) of (c) on (d) at
Q.236. The pineapple dessert was so delicious that we couldn’t
help eat it.
(a) so delicious that we couldn’t helping eat it
(b) so that delicious we couldn’t help eating it
(c) No substitution
(d) so delicious that we couldn’t help eating it
Q.237. Autumn leaves shuffled beneath him as he wandered
through the quiet forest.
(a) rustled underfoot (b) crushed around
(c) moved to another place (d) died over
Q.238. If we want to promote national integrity in our country,
then we must desist our tendency of taking up with others.
(a) looking down upon (b) bringing forward
(c) coming round (d) setting out
Q.239..She confided in me on her anxious, whispering her
secrets between sips of coffee.
(a) on her anxiousness (b) about her anxious
(c) about her anxiety (d) regarding herself’s anxiousness
Q.240. ‘Spy Family’ is a graphic novel that is a narrative work in
which the story is conveyed to the reader using uninterrupted art
in a traditional comics format.
(a) sequential art in a traditional
(b) existential art in a traditional
(c) sedimental art in a traditional
(d) longitudinal art in a traditional
Q.241. She has been studying for two o’clock .
(a) study from two o’clock (b) studying since two o’clock
(c) study for two o’clock (d) studying two o’clock
Q.242. Spreading awareness about the rights of the consumers
and the relief open to them in case they did not get their money’s
worth of goods and service has rightly been identified as the first
priority.
(a) were unable to get their money’s worth
(b) No substitution
(c) did not getting their money’s worth
(d) will not get their money’s worth
Q.243. Pollution levels have increased so largely that they are
almost killing us.
(a) highly (b) slowly (c) primarily (d) chiefly
Q.244. Select the word segment that can substitute the
bracketed word segment correctly and complete the sentence
meaningfully.
(Each participant have) performed well.
(a) Each participant was (b) Each participant has
(c) Each participant have been (d) Each participant were
Q.245. There are many factories in the operative area of the city.
(a) industrial (b) serviceable (c) industrious (d) mechanical
Q.246. I have been living in Hyderabad
since I am born .
(a) since I have born (b) since I will be born
(c) since I born (d) since I was born
Q.247. Rare species of frogs were very quicker identified by
Stella.
(a) to frogs were very quickly (b) of frogs were very quickly
Sentence Improvement
(c) in frogs were very quicker (d) of frogs were very quicklier
Q.248. He was an irresponsible person to the matter of taking
up responsibilities.
(a) at the matter of taking up (b) in the matter of taking up
(c) by the matter of taking up (d) along the matter of taking up
Q.249. Mayra has the ability for mathematics.
(a) astute (b) altitude (c) aptitude (d) attitude
Q.250. Select the option that can substitute/replace the
bracketed word correctly and complete the sentence.
They could (always) stay in, or go for a walk.
(a) had better (b) not only (c) either (d) neither
Q.251. Charles Darwin is renowned for his book on evolution,
‘On the Origin of Species’, which laid down a treasure
ofsubstantiation that evolution occurs, and projected a
mechanism, that is, natural selection, for how it does so.
(a) laid into a treasure of substantiation
(b) laid about a treasure of substantiation
(c) laid away a treasure of substantiation
(d) laid out a treasure of substantiation
Q.252. Our legal system must frame proper legal rules for
juvenile criminals.
(a) senile (b) dotage (c) old (d) young
Q.253. The programme on TV was now shown the blurring faces
of the inmates of the rehabilitation centre.
(a) were now showing the blurred faces of the inmates of the
rehabilitation centre.
(b) was now showing the blurred faces of the inmates of the
rehabilitation centre
(c) were now showing the blurring faces of the inmates from the
rehabilitation centre
(d) was now showing the blurred faces of the inmates upon the
rehabilitation centre
Q.254. When I saw him, I will ask him to return the book he
borrowed.
(a) shall see him (b) have seen him (c) had seen him (d) see him
Q.255. Gourav was no good than a foolish person.
(a) no better (b) not good (c) no best (d) not best
Q.256. If I was the queen, I would give a handsome sum towards
education.
(a) will be the queen (b) were the queen
(c) have been the queen (d) would be the queen
Q.257. Five years later, I was eating this same dish at the same
restaurant.
(a) will have be eating (b) has been eating
(c) am eating (d) had been eating
Q.258. Beyond skills, experience, and training, companies search
for applicants who display excitement — those they believe shall
carry out allocated responsibilities cheerfully and cooperatively.
(a) shall take up any designated obligations
(b) will execute assigned duties
(c) will demonstrate non-biased work
(d) should pick up all skills and works
Q.259. The mother asked the child, “Will you tell me who did
accompany you to the airport?”
(a) who accompanies you (b) who does accompany you
(c) who accompanied you (d) who must be accompaniedyou
Q.260. Satya is always great to his friends who helped him when
he was in trouble.
(a) greatful (b) thanked (c) no substitution (d) grateful
Q.261. The team always anticipate a bowling friendly pitch on
their easy victory in the T20 matches.
(a) pitch over their easy victory (b) pitch for their easy victory
(c) pitch to their easy victory (d) pitch of their easy victory
Q.262. The wedding was put on until January.
(a) put in (b) put off (c) put down (d) put up
Q.263. Everyone called the reporter a daredevil after he came
back safely from the war zone.
(a) a common man (b) a fearless person
(c) an insignificant person (d) a hypocrite
Q.264. Carnatic music is usually performed by a small troupe of
actors, consisting of a principal performer, a melodic
accompaniment, and a rhythm accompaniment.
(a) board of directors (b) ensemble of musicians
(c) panel of judges (d) band of singers
Q.265. It is very hard for her to provide the necessities of her
family.
(a) the necessities to her family
(b) the necessities by her family
(c) the necessity of her family
(d) the necessities from her families
Q.266. To the general public, William was best known as a
crusader for peace and as an admired critic about social,
political and ethical subjects.
(a) for peace and as an admired critic by
(b) for peace and as an admired critic on
(c) about peace and as an admired critic about
(d) in peace and as an admired critic about
Q.267. No matter how hard work you, your boss will not
recognise your efforts.
(a) hard you work (b) work you do hard
(c) hardly you work (d) no substitution
Q.268. As the rulers of the planet, humans like to think that it is
the largest creatures that will emerge victorious from the
struggle for survival.
(a) No substitution (b) it is the most large creatures
(c) they are a largest creature (d) they are the largest creatures
Q.269. Experts acknowledged that some counterfeiting of
document techniques are virtually impossible to detect.
(a) fiasco (b) forgery (c) impromptu (d) frenzy
Q.270. If it had not rained, they would not postpone the
programmes.
(a) would be postponed (b) no substitution
(c) would not have postponed (d) would not postponed
Q.271. Sivamani is working as an electrician for the past 22
years.
(a) had been worked (b) has been working
(c) have been working (d) would work
Q.272. Her thinning grey hair was hanging on her bony forehead.
Sentence Improvement
(a) falling about (b) urging ahead
(c) straggling over (d) sinking from
Q.273. An intense wish to learn something keeps the nerves
active.
(a) powerful (b) fixed (c) lazy (d) half-hearted
Q.274. Rohan exercised and ate a lot, lest he should not be weak.
(a) lest he should not weak (b) lest he would be weak
(c) lest he would not be weak. (d) lest he should be weak
Q.275. Bankrupts are those who are incapable to pay their debts
(a) capable (b) powerful (c) incompetent (d) meagre
Q.276. Select the option that can substitute/replace the
bracketed word correctly and complete the sentence.
He (seek) for the wallet in his pocket.
(a) Sought (b) Had seeking (c) Are seeking (d) Seeking
Q.277. Do you know where does she reside ?
(a) where does she resides? (b) where she reside?
(c) where she resides? (d) where do she reside?
Q.278. A computer can’t function without it’s mother board.
(a) its (b) his (c) their (d) it is
Q.279. Transnational linkages, for example, sever the
nation-state’s integrity and corrupt state-society relations.
(a) cohesion and erode (b) divergence and relativity
(c) severance and revolution (d) controversy and diminution
Q.280. His house is smaller than you .
(a) is smaller than yours (b) is small as you
(c) is small than you (d) is smaller than your
Q.281. She was foolish enough to think that she be completely
safe now.
(a) has being completely safe (b) have been completely safe
(c) is completely safe (d) were completely safe
Q.282. No sooner did Mr. Piyahri Mishra finish his chemistry
lecture that the students began to leave.
(a) so the students began to leave.
(b) then the students began to leave.
(c) and the students began to leave.
(d) than the students began to leave.
Q.283. Sanat has just arrived in Mysore on transfer; he requests
his friend Raghu to help him find an appropriate location.
(a) an allocation recommendation (b) a rented accommodation
(c) a proper junction (d) a suitable elevation
Q.284. This book giving us much information about our freedom
fighters who lost their lives while serving our motherland.
(a) gives us many information (b) give us many information
(c) give us much information (d) gives us much information
Q.285. The food intolerance industry has grown dramatically in
the previous decade, chiefly because of a boost in Coeliac and
Crohn’s disease cases, as well as increasing awareness among
health-conscious clients.
(a) contextually because of a spark
(b) pretty much entirely because of a boil-down
(c) casually due to a growth
(d) owing primarily to a rise
Sol.191.(a) Even though
‘Even though’ is used to express a contrast between two ideas.
Similarly, in the given sentence, there is a contrast between
‘Everybody has left the office’ and ‘Ashutosh is still busy’. Hence,
‘even though’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.192.(a) would be able to qualify
‘Qualifying’ must be replaced with ‘to qualify’ as an infinitive(to +
V 1 ) is used after the adjective ‘able’. Hence, ‘would be able to
qualify’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.193.(a) I have ever seen
To highlight the best or worst experience with something, we
use ‘ever’ in present perfect tense after the superlative degree.
‘Superlative degree + Subject + has/have + ever + V 3’ is the
correct grammatical structure. Hence, ‘I have ever seen’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.194.(c) along with the students was crossing
The words written after the preposition(along with) are not
considered a part of the subject. In the given sentence, ‘The
teacher’ is the subject, which is singular. Therefore, ‘were’ must
be replaced with ‘was’. Hence, ‘along with the students was
crossing’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.195.(b) She is allergic to peanuts
‘To’ is a fixed preposition used with the adjective ‘allergic’.
Hence, ‘allergic to peanuts’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.196.(d) prescribed
The given sentence is in the past tense, therefore the past
form(V ) of the verb will be used. Hence, ‘prescribed(V )’ is the
2 2
most appropriate answer.
Sol.197.(a) runs faster than
We generally use the comparative degree with ‘than’ to make a
comparison between two persons or things. ‘Faster’ is the
correct comparative degree of ‘fast’. Therefore, ‘more’ will be
removed. Hence, ‘runs faster than’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.198.(d) always remains
Simple present tense is used to denote conditions that are
generally true. The given sentence talks about the general
condition of traffic in a part of Delhi. ‘Traffic’ is a singular subject
that will take ‘remains’ as a singular verb. Hence, ‘always
remains’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.199.(b) No improvement required
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.200.(d) but also very suspenseful
‘Not only … but also’ is a pair conjunction and the same part of
speech is used after them. There is an adjective after ‘not only’,
so we will use an adjective after ‘but also’. ‘Suspenseful’ is an
adjective. Hence, ‘but also very suspenseful’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.201.(a) of
‘Of’ is used after the verb ‘complain’ to indicate the issue or the
problem. Similarly, in the given sentence, ‘of’ has been used to
indicate the pain. Hence, ‘of’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.202.(a) during
Sentence Improvement
‘During’ is used to indicate the time at which something
happens, which is usually an event or an activity. Similarly,
‘session’ is the event in which he asked the speaker some
questions. Hence, ‘during’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.203.(b) I went
The given sentence is in the simple past tense, therefore the
past form(V ) of the verb will be used. Hence, ‘went(V )’ is the
2 2
most appropriate answer.
Sol.204.(d) but he did not inform anyone
‘But’ is used to indicate a contrast between expectation and
reality. A sick person is expected to inform somebody regarding
the leave but in the given sentence John did not inform anyone.
Hence, ‘but he did not inform anyone’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.205.(a) No improvement required
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.206.(b) I have known her for many years. This time, she took
an unusual decision in an unprejudiced way.
Article ‘an’ is used before words starting with a vowel sound (an
apple, an umbrella, an American). Similarly, in the given
sentence, the words ‘unusual’ and ‘unprejudiced’ start with a
vowel sound. Hence, the sentence given in option (b) is correct.
Sol.207.(c) she didn’t eat any
‘None’ is not used in a negative sentence. ‘None’ must be
replaced with ‘any’ as we use ‘any’ in a negative sentence.
Hence, “she didn’t eat any” is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.208.(b) A tide pool is an isolated pocket of water that is
formed when sea water becomes trapped as the tide goes out.
Indefinite article ‘a/an’ is used when we talk about a noun in
general. Similarly, the given sentence talks about ‘tide pool’ and
‘isolated pocket’ in a general sense. We will use article ‘a’ before
‘tide’ (consonant sound) and article ‘an’ before ‘isolated’(vowel
sound). Article ‘the’ will be used before the 2nd ‘tide’. Hence, the
sentence given in option (b) is correct.
Sol.209.(c) behaves as if
‘As if’ is used to talk about a situation that may not be true but
that is possible. Similarly, in the given sentence, the person may
not be a king but he behaves like a king. Hence, ‘behaves as if’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.210.(b) watching movies
We use a noun, pronoun or a gerund(V ) after the phrase ‘other
ing
than’. Therefore, ‘to’ will be removed. Hence, ‘watching(V )
ing
movies’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.211.(d) He will be meeting us next week.
The given sentence is in the future continuous tense and follows
the structure, “Third person pronoun + will + be + V ing ”. Hence,
the sentence given in option (d) is correct.
Sol.212.(b) to shop
Infinitive(to + V ) is used after the verb ‘wait’. Therefore, ‘for
1
shopping’ must be replaced with ‘to shop(V )’. Hence, ‘to shop’ is
1
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.213.(a) is her personal decision
‘Whether … or’ is a pair of conjunctions. According to the “Rule of
Proximity”, the verb is supplied according to the subject closest
to the verb. In the given sentence, the close subject is a verb
phrase ‘continues to live’, which denotes a single action.
Therefore, singular verb ‘is’ will be used. Hence, ‘is her personal
decision’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.214.(d) Heart and soul- entire energy and effort.
Sol.215.(b) to seeing
There are some phrases that are always followed by a
gerund(V ). Such phrases are ‘with a view to, looking forward to,
ing
in addition to, accustomed to, habituated to, be used to, prone to,
etc.’ Hence, ‘look forward to seeing’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.216.(d) more clever than
When we compare two qualities of the same person, the
comparative degree is formed by adding ‘more’, not by adding
‘-er’. Hence, ‘more clever than’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.217.(c) Put out- to extinguish fire.
Sol.218.(c) nowadays by gloomy definitions
‘By’ is used in passive voice to indicate the doer or agent of the
action. Similarly, in the given sentence, ‘by’ has been used to
indicate the doer of the action ‘plagued’. Hence, ‘nowadays by
gloomy definitions’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.219.(d) is studying
Present continuous tense is used to indicate an action that is in
progress in the present. ‘Singular Subject + is + V ’ is the
ing
correct grammatical structure for it. Hence, ‘is studying’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.220.(d) posed to be
‘To + V ’, also known as infinitive, is the correct grammatical
1
structure. The given sentence is in the past tense, therefore, the
past form(V ) of the verb will be used. Hence, ‘posed to be’ is the
2
most appropriate answer.
Sol.221.(a) most horrifying serials
‘Horrifying’ means causing a feeling of horror. The given
sentence states that one of the most horrifying serials of the
Indian television industry was broadcast twenty years ago.
Hence, ‘most horrifying serials’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.222.(b) Monika said to her mother, “I have passed
If the reported speech is given in inverted commas(“ ” ), it is
called direct speech. However, in the direct speech, we do not
use any conjunctions (‘that’, ‘if’, ‘whether’) after the reporting
verb (say). Therefore, ‘that’ will be removed from the given
sentence. Hence, option (b) is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.223.(a) No substitution required.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.224.(c) dropped by the club unexpectedly
The phrasal verb ‘drop by’ means to pay a brief casual visit. The
given sentence states that Heba dropped by the club
unexpectedly to say hello and catch up. Hence, ‘dropped by the
club unexpectedly’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.225.(d) far
Positive degree ‘far’ will be used in this sentence as there is no
comparison. Hence, ‘far’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.226.(c) better than most other batsmen
‘More other’ must be replaced with ‘most other’, indicating the
majority of other batsmen. Plural noun is used with the adjective
Sentence Improvement
‘other’. The given sentence states that Rohit Sharma is better
than the majority of other batsmen in the world. Hence, ‘better
than most other batsmen’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.227.(a) No substitution
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.228.(c) not at
‘At war with’ is the correct phrase, which means to be in a
situation of war with an enemy nation. Hence, ‘not at’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.229.(d) with a sharp knife
‘With’ is used when there is a physical contact between two
things. When a person is stabbed with a knife, the knife enters a
person’s body, indicating a physical contact. Hence, ‘with a sharp
knife’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.230.(c) apparent in endeavours to guarantee
‘Endeavour’ means an attempt to achieve a goal. ‘Guarantee’
means to ensure that something will happen. The phrase
‘evident in efforts to ensure’ means the same as ‘apparent in
endeavours to guarantee’. Hence, ‘apparent in endeavours to
guarantee’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.231.(b) better of
‘Than’ is used when one thing is before the comparative degree
and the other comes afterwards. But when we talk about one out
of two, ‘of’ is used with comparative degree. The given sentence
talks about the one better option out of two options available.
Hence, ‘better of’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.232.(a) rose another three feet
‘Raised’ must be replaced with ‘rose’. ‘Raise’ means to cause
something to move upwards. ‘Rose’ means to go upwards or
higher. ‘Rose’ is the past form of ‘rise’, indicating simple past
tense. Hence, ‘rose another three feet’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.233.(c) has
‘Have’ is a stative verb denoting possession. Stative verbs are
generally not used in the continuous tense. Rather, we use
simple present tense to talk about the present state. ‘Ramgopal’
is a singular subject that will take ‘has’ as a singular verb. Hence,
‘has’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.234.(c) never been
In the given sentence, the main verb is ‘be’. With ‘has/have/had’,
the third form of the verb is used. The first form of the verb is
used with modals (will, shall, can, may, might, could, would,
should, must). Hence, ‘never been(V )’ is the most appropriate
3
answer.
Sol.235.(d) at
‘At’ is used with ‘angry’ for a person. ‘Angry at someone’ is the
correct phrase. Hence, ‘at’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.236.(d) so delicious that we couldn’t help eating it
The phrase “can’t help / couldn’t help” is used when you can not
resist doing something. Present participle(V ) is used after this
ing
phrase. Hence, “so delicious that we couldn’t help eating it” is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.237.(a) rustled underfoot
‘Rustle’ means to make a soft sound, as by moving leaves.
‘Underfoot’ means under your feet as you walk. The given
sentence states that autumn leaves rustled underfoot as he
wandered through the quiet forest. Hence, ‘rustled underfoot’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.238.(a) looking down upon
‘Taking up with’ must be replaced with the phrasal verb ‘looking
down upon’, which means to treat someone as unimportant or
not worthy of respect. The given sentence talks about desisting
the tendency of looking down upon others. Hence, ‘looking down
upon’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.239.(c) about her anxiety
Preposition ‘about’ is used to indicate the specific subject or
issue. We use a noun after any preposition. ‘Anxiety’ is the
correct noun to use here. ‘Anxiety’ means a feeling of worry,
nervousness or unease about something. Hence, ‘about her
anxiety’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.240.(a) sequential art in a traditional ‘Sequential’ means in a
logical order. The given sentence states that ‘Spy Family’ is a
graphic novel that is a narrative work in which the story is
conveyed to the reader using sequential art in a traditional
comics format. Hence, 'sequential art in a traditional' is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.241.(b) studying since two o’clock
‘Since’ is used to indicate the point of time when something
started. Similarly, the given sentence states the time when she
started studying. Hence, “studying since two o’ clock” is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.242.(a) were unable to get their money’s worth
The phrase ‘did not get’ means to not be able to get something
in the past. ‘Unable’ means to not be able to do something.
Hence, “were unable to get their money’s worth” is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.243.(a) highly
‘Highly’ means at a high level. The given sentence states that
pollution levels have increased so highly that they are almost
killing us. Hence, 'highly' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.244.(b) Each participant has
‘Everyone/each/ every/ nothing/ everything/ anything/ either/
neither’ represents a singular noun. Therefore, singular verbs will
be used with them. Hence, ‘Each participant has’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.245.(a) industrial
‘Industrial’ means having a lot of factories. The given sentence
states that there are many factories in the industrial area of the
city. Hence, 'industrial' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.246.(d) since I was born
‘Since’ is used to indicate the point of time in the past when
something began. Therefore, past tense will be used in the
clause beginning with ‘since’. Hence, ‘since I was born’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.247.(b) of frogs were very quickly
The given sentence needs an adverb ‘quickly’ to modify the verb
‘identified’, not an adjective ‘quicker’. Hence, ‘of frogs were very
quickly’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.248.(b) in the matter of taking up
‘In’ is used to indicate a specific situation or circumstance. The
given passage states that he was an irresponsible person in the
Sentence Improvement
matter of taking up responsibilities. Hence, 'in the matter of
taking up' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.249.(c) Aptitude
‘Aptitude’ means a natural ability to do something. The given
sentence states that Mayra has the aptitude for mathematics.
Hence, 'aptitude' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.250.(c) either
‘Either…or’ is a fixed pair of conjunctions. Hence, ‘either’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.251.(d) laid out a treasure of substantiation
‘Laid out’ means explained or described something in a clear
and detailed way. The given sentence states that Charles Darwin
is renowned for his book on evolution, ‘On the Origin of Species’,
which laid down a treasure of substantiation that evolution
occurs. Hence, ‘laid out a treasure of substantiation’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.252.(d) young
The given sentence states that our legal system must frame
legal rules for young criminals. Hence, ‘young’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.253.(b) was now showing the blurred faces of the inmates
of the rehabilitation centre
‘Singular Sub. + was + V ing’ is grammatically the correct structure
for a sentence which is in the past continuous tense. Hence,
‘was now showing(V ) the blurred faces of the inmates of the
ing
rehabilitation centre’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.254.(d) see him
If ‘when’ is used to denote the time of a future event, it is used in
simple present tense. First form of the verb is used with pronoun
‘I’ in the simple present tense. Hence, ‘see(V 1) him’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.255.(a) no better
We use comparative degree with ‘than’ to make comparison.
However, ‘better’ is the comparative degree of ‘good’. Hence, ‘no
better’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.256.(b) were the queen
The phrase ‘If i were’ is generally used in the subjunctive mood
to talk about possibilities, wishes, or conditions that are contrary
to reality. ‘If I were… (would + V ) / (would have + V )’ is the
1 3
correct grammatical structure. Hence, ‘If I were the queen’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.257.(c) am eating
The given sentence implies that the person ate a dish at a
restaurant and five years later, he is eating the same dish at the
same restaurant. Therefore, the sentence will be written in
simple present tense. Hence, ‘am eating’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.258.(b) will execute assigned duties
‘Execute’ means to carry out fully. ‘Duties’ means responsibility.
The given sentence states that beyond skills, experience, and
training, companies search for applicants who display
excitement — those they believe will execute assigned duties
cheerfully and cooperatively. Hence, ‘will execute assigned
duties’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.259.(c) who accompanied you
When a question is part of a sentence, the helping verb is written
after the subject, not before the subject. Past form (V 2 ) is used
in simple past tense. Hence, ‘who accompanied(V 2 ) you’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.260.(d) grateful
‘Grateful’ means showing appreciation for something done. The
given sentence states that Satya is always grateful to his friends
who helped him when he was in trouble. Hence, ‘grateful’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.261.(b) pitch for their easy victory
‘For’ is used to indicate the purpose or reason for something.
Similarly, the team anticipate a bowling friendly pitch for the
purpose of easy victory in the T20 matches. Hence, ‘pitch for
their easy victory’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.262.(b) put off
The phrasal verb ‘put off’ means to delay something until a later
time. The given sentence states that the wedding was put off
until January. Hence, ‘put off’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.263.(b) A daredevil- a fearless person.
Sol.264.(b) ensemble of musicians
‘Ensemble’ means a group of musicians, dancers, or actors who
perform together. The given sentence talks about carnatic
music, so the correct phrase to use is ‘ensemble of musicians’.
Hence, ‘ensemble of musicians’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.265.(a) the necessities to her family
‘To’ is used to indicate the receiver of an action or object. In the
given sentence, ‘her family’ is the receiver of the necessities.
Hence, ‘the necessities to her family’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.266.(b) for peace and as an admired critic on
‘On’ is generally used to indicate the topic or subject of
discussion. Hence, ‘on’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.267.(a) hard you work
‘Subject + main verb’ is the correct order for the sentence. ‘You’
is the subject and ‘work’ is its main verb. Hence, ‘hard you work’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.268.(d) they are the largest creatures
‘Humans’ is a plural noun that will take the plural pronoun ‘they’
and the plural verb ‘are’. Hence, ‘they are the largest creatures’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.269.(b) forgery
‘Forgery’ means the crime of illegally copying something in order
to deceive someone. The given sentence states that experts
acknowledged that some forgery techniques are virtually
impossible to detect. Hence, ‘forgery’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.270.(c) would not have postponed
The given sentence is an example of a third conditional
sentence and the correct grammatical structure for it is “If +
past perfect (had + V )…….. Would have + V ”. Hence, ‘would not
3 3
have postponed’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.271.(b) has been working
Perfect continuous tense is used when the time period is given
with ‘for/since’. ‘Singular subject + has been + V ing’ is the correct
grammatical structure for this sentence. Hence, ‘has been
Sentence Improvement
working’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.272.(c) straggling over
‘Straggling over’ means spread out in an irregular way. The given
sentence states that her thinning grey hair was spread out
irregularly over her bony forehead. Hence, ‘straggling over’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.273.(a) powerful
‘Intense’ means the same as powerful. The given sentence
states that a powerful wish to learn something keeps the nerves
active. Hence, ‘powerful’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.274.(d) lest he should be weak
‘Not’ will be removed as the use of ‘not’ with ‘lest’ is superfluous.
Hence, ‘lest he should be weak’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.275.(c) incompetent
‘Incompetent’ means incapable of doing something. The given
sentence states that bankrupts are those who are incompetent
to pay their debts. Hence, ‘incompetent’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.276.(a) Sought
‘Sought’ is the correct verb to use here. ‘Sought’ is the past form
of ‘seek’, indicating simple past tense. Hence, ‘sought’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.277.(c) where she resides?
When a question is a part of a sentence, the correct structure is
“Wh. word + Subject + verb”. ‘She’ is a singular subject that will
take the singular verb ‘resides’. Hence, ‘where she resides?’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.278.(a) its
‘Its’ is a possessive used for things. Here, ‘its’ has been used for
a computer. Hence, ‘its’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.279.(a) cohesion and erode
‘Cohesion’ means forming a united whole & ‘erode’ means
gradually destroy. The given sentence states that transnational
linkages, for example, sever the nation-state’s cohesion and
erode state-society relations. Hence, ‘cohesion and erode’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.280.(a) is smaller than yours
The comparison is between two houses, not the house and
person. So, we will use a possessive pronoun ‘yours’ instead of
‘you’. Hence, ‘is smaller than yours’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.281.(c) is completely safe
The use of the adverb ‘now’ indicates present tense and the
present tense form of ‘be’ is ‘is’ for the singular subject (she).
Hence, ‘is completely safe’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.282.(d) than the students began to leave.
‘No sooner …than’ is a fixed pair of conjunctions. Therefore, ‘that’
will be replaced with ‘than’. Hence, ‘than the students began to
leave’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.283.(b) a rented accommodation
‘Rented accommodation’ means a property that is occupied by a
tenant who pays rent to the owner, or landlord. The given
sentence states that he requests his friend Raghu to help him
find a rented accommodation. Hence, 'a rented accommodation'
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.284.(d) gives us much information
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb. At the end of a singular
verb, s/es is used. In the given sentence, ‘this book’ is a singular
subject that will take ‘gives’ as a singular verb. Hence, ‘gives us
much information’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.285.(d) owing primarily to a rise
‘Owing to’ means because of & ‘primarily’ means mainly. ‘Rise’
means increase in number. The given sentence states that the
food intolerance industry has grown dramatically in the previous
decade, owing primarily to a rise in Coeliac and Crohn’s disease
cases, as well as increasing awareness among health-conscious
clients. Hence, ‘owing primarily to a rise’ is the most appropriate
answer.
eduquity-based pattern (ebp)
Questions (286 to 376)
Q.286. Aesthetic value is specifically a way in which we can get
positive conclude value from the world at large.
(a) can get positive convalescent value
(b) can get positive convulsive value
(c) can get positive conclusive value
(d) can get positive contrastive value
Q.287. Ranjith failed in all his exams as he had been addicted of
social media.
(a) as he had been addicted at (b) as he had been addicted on
(c) as he had been addicted in (d) as he had been addicted to
Q.288. The cynical investors believed in every word the analysts
said.
(a) credulous (b) distrustful (c) persuasive (d) credible
Q.289. It is nothing else your pride which makes you say such a
thing.
(a) else your pride that makes
(b) else your pride which make
(c) else but your pride which make
(d) else but your pride which makes
Q.290. Mr. Adhil called back but he wasn’t able to find the
scooter part he needed.
(a) called down but he wasn’t able to
(b) called off but he wasn’t able to
(c) called around but he wasn’t able to
(d) called up to but he wasn’t able to
Q.291. Select the most appropriate phrasal verb to fill in the
blank.
We need to _____ a solution to this problem before it gets worse.
(a) cut down on (b) break down (c) break up (d) come up with
Q.292. Nina has not yet learned how to straighten up and fly
right.
(a) forget the wrongdoings of the others
(b) improve her absurd behaviour and act seriously
(c) be professional in flying the aircraft
(d) remember the past and prepare for the future
Q.293. I had not only helped her by giving hints but also with
providing her links.
(a) helped her not only by (b) helped her not by
(c) helped her only by (d) helped not only her by
Sentence Improvement
Q.294. Positive self-talk have a great affect on one’s self-worth.
(a) has a great affect (b) have a great effect
(c) having a great affect (d) has a great effect
Q.295. Arushya purchased the most good of all the suits kept in
the shop.
(a) the goods (b) the best (c) the more good (d) the good
Q.296. Even if you’ve never heard his name, you’ve probably met
someone with his words tattooed in their skin or heard them
sung at a music concert.
(a) tattooed through their skin (b) tattooed until their skin
(c) tattooed overdoing their skin (d) tattooed on their skin
Q.297. Select the option that can substitute/replace the
bracketed word correctly and complete the sentence.
If he runs, he (get) there in time.
(a) will get (b) is getting (c) got there in time (d) has to get
Q.298. Ashoka was the greatest than all the Mauryan Emperors .
(a) all Mauryan Emperors
(b) of the Mauryan Emperors
(c) to all another Mauryan Emperors
(d) to other Mauryan Emperors
Q.299. Select the option that can substitute/replace the
bracketed word correctly and complete the sentence.
I said I (don't) understand.
(a) doesn't (b) am doing (c) didn't (d) done
Q.300. I picked up my little clock and it began to dance
gracefully.
(a) move gradually (b) lift smoothly
(c) chime prettily (d) work agreeably
Q.301. The chair I have bought recently is costly than what I
bought last year.
(a) is the costliest (b) is costlier
(c) was costly (d) will be costly
Q.302. RN Right’s literary works helped redefine discussions in
race relations in America in the mid-20th century.
(a) by race relations in America
(b) beside race relations in America
(c) to race relations in America
(d) of race relations in America
Q.303. Verity is a good virtue for human life.
(a) Knowledge (b) Truth (c) Information (d) Cooperation
Q.304. The chief guest concluded his speech as he requested to
stop by the organisers.
(a) no substitution (b) he was requested
(c) he is requested (d) he will be requested
Q.305. Select the word segment that can substitute the
bracketed word segment correctly and complete the sentence
meaningfully.
We will have to (put the meeting away) as the Director is not
well.
(a) put the meeting off (b) put the meeting up
(c) put the meeting on (d) put the meeting again
Q.306. I am down with her complaints.
(a) looked down with (b) passed out with
(c) fed up with (d) held down with
Q.307. The little boy cried with pain when he burnt his fingers.
(a) No substitution required (b) while he burn his fingers
(c) as he burning his fingers (d) when he burns his fingers
Q.308. The skunk had a conspicuous spinal stripe.
(a) faint (b) charming (c) obscure (d) noticeable
Q.309. Rahul had strong pain in his stomach.
(a) strict (b) severe (c) high (d) deep
Q.310. Select the most appropriate option that can replace the
bracketed word segment in the following sentence.
Children should avoid giving out personal details online (which
will) identify them or their location.
(a) that could (b) what will
(c) which might lead (d) whichever can
Q.311. The company do not broke the law at any time.
(a) did not broken (b) do not brakes
(c) does not break (d) did not breaking
Q.312. He was not happy until he gave up his job and live as a
fakir in the forests.
(a) until he gave up his job and lived
(b) until he gives up his job and lived
(c) unless he gave up his job and lives
(d) until he gave up his job and lives
Q.313. Dhruv’s anger blazed of uncontrollably.
(a) anger blazed onwards (b) anger blazed up
(c) anger blazed into (d) anger blazed after
Q.314. This win could enhance to be a historic turning point in
the fortunes of the team.
(a) prove (b) demonstrate (c) confirm (d) accomplish
Q.315. Mothers have great animosity for their children.
(a) affection (b) affectation (c) absurdity (d) abasement
Q.316. Sonam’s cat used to chase the mouse into the kitchen
and knock through a tower of pots and pans.
(a) knock over a tower of pots (b) knock out a tower of pots
(c) knock away a tower of pots (d) knock inside a tower of pots
Q.317. A soldier of the tenth legion leaped into the water as
soon as the ship touches the shore.
(a) the ship touched the shore (b) the ship touch the shore
(c) No substitution required (d) the ship was touch the shore
Q.318. We feel warm on the subject
(a) warmly about (b) warmed on
(c) warmer on (d) warming about
Q.319. The dictator ordered the traitor were jailed.
(a) might (b) is (c) was (d) to be
Q.320. Select the option that corrects the following sentence.
He has broken his leg yesterday.
(a) He had broke his leg yesterday.
(b) He have broken his leg yesterday.
(c) He has broke his leg yesterday.
(d) He broke his leg yesterday.
Q.321. Please take many as you want.
(a) so much (b) as much (c) much of (d) too much
Q.322. Rimjhim received a children’s very illustrated colourful
Sentence Improvement
atlas on her 10th birthday.
(a) an very illustrated colourful children’s atlas
(b) a very colourful illustrated children’s atlas
(c) a very illustrated colourful atlas children
(d) a colourful very illustrated children’s atlas
Q.323. The Privacy Shield establishes a process to allow
companies to transfer consumer data from European Union
countries to the United States in compliance in EU law.
(a) in compliance with (b) in compliance under the
(c) in compliance for the (d) No improvement
Q.324. This book provides an unrestrained account of the
natural resources in India.
(a) exhaustive (b) exhausting (c) limlited (d) excessive
Q.325. Select the option that will improve the given sentence by
using the most appropriate verb.
That Macbook belong to Xavier.
(a) That Macbook belonging to Xavier.
(b) That Macbook is belong to Xavier.
(c) That Macbook belongs to Xavier.
(d) That Macbook is belonged to Xavier.
Q.326. It will take two hours to walk across the forest.
(a) between (b) over (c) away (d) through
Q.327. We set up on the journey early in the morning.
(a) set about (b) No improvement required
(c) set in (d) set off
Q.328. You can be sentenced for trespassing on someone else’s
property
(a) conspiring against others (b) leaving without permission
(c) entering without permission (d) showing unselfish devotion
Q.329. The wizard, while performing an item, accidentally set his
own hat on fire and prompted the fire alarm to go on.
(a) the fire alarm to go above (b) the fire alarm to go off
(c) the fire alarm to go under (d) the fire alarm to go away
Q.330. In every country of the world, primary caregivers are the
women of children and elders.
(a) women are the caregivers primary of
(b) the women primary caregivers are of
(c) women are the primary caregivers of
(d) primary caregivers women are of the
Q.331. The woman lost much to her body weight due to diabetes.
(a) off her body weight due to (b) from her body weight due to
(c) for her body weight due to (d) of her body weight due to
Q.332. Select the most appropriate option that can replace the
bracketed word segment in the following sentence.
An (imperfect positioning) of the Sun, Earth and Moon results in
the Moon passing through only part of Earth's umbra, resulting in
a partial lunar eclipse.
(a) imperfect revolution (b) imperfect allegiance
(c) imperfect alignment (d) imperfect alliance
Q.333. The new chief is gifted at the power of eloquence.
(a) gifted of (b) gifted with (c) gifted among (d) gifted for
Q.334. The recent cloudburst completely dismantled the village
and its people.
(a) took up (b) took apart (c) took back (d) took after
Q.335. The annual seed festival hosted in Auroville promote
sharing of traditional knowledge and sustainable farming
practices.
(a) promotes sharing of traditional
(b) promotes sharing of traditionally
(c) promotes sharing of tradition
(d) No improvement required
Q.336. The sudden declaration of war between two countries led
to a disarray.
(a) refined argument (b) peaceful treaty
(c) disorderly situation (d) elusive situation
Q.337. Greta Thunberg’s tirade against environmental
degeneration shocked the world leaders.
(a) minute observation (b) innate liberal opinion
(c) long and angry speech (d) debatable account
Q.338. He lived on the bank of a mighty river, broad and deep,
that have always silently rolling on to a vast undiscovered ocean.
(a) which were always silently rolling
(b) what has always silently rolling
(c) that were always silently rolling
(d) which was always silently rolling
Q.339. If you are thinking about investing in share markets, isn’t
it make sense to find an expert ?
(a) do it (b) did it (c) doesn’t it (d) is it
Q.340. The novel highlights the place of the endangered species
in the rainforest.
(a) plight (b) position (c) perspective (d) prowess
Q.341. I gave my best dress to her on condition that she return it
the very next day in a clean condition.
(a) on the condition that she would return
(b) on the conditions that she had return
(c) on the condition that she return
(d) on condition that she returned
Q.342. The boy watched a sci-fi movie in the lieu of playing in
the game zone.
(a) on lieu of playing (b) in lieu off playing
(c) in lieu of play (d) in lieu of playing
Q.343. Select the most appropriate option to correct the
sentence by using meaning of the undelined word.
In the winter season, the poor woman needed a refuge where
she could live freely and independently.
(a) Inn (b) School (c) Tent (d) Shelter
Q.344. The revolt of the labourers will be considered as an
epoch in the world history.
(a) unpopular measure (b) hostile event
(c) important period (d) commendable act
Q.345. A newer, more effective computer system was installed
in place of the obsolete one.
(a) modern (b) outdated (c) advanced (d) current
Q.346. I had to write a letter of mistake to my father for the
blunder I made.
(a) apology (b) circumstance
(c) gratitude (d) No substitution required
Q.347. Select the option that corrects the following sentence.
Sentence Improvement
All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold away.
(a) All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold out.
(b) All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold among.
(c) All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold into.
(d) All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold across.
Q.348. Employers in many developing countries report that a
lack of skilled workers is a major and increasing bottleneck for
their operations, affected their capacity to innovate.
(a) effect their capacity (b) affect their capacity
(c) effecting their capacity (d) affecting their capacity
Q.349. Planets in our solar system close and big for them to
twinkle.
(a) very close and big (b) are quite close and big
(c) are too close and big (d) is close and big
Q.350. He asked his father when would come the next letter.
(a) come the next letter (b) the next letter would come
(c) No substitution required (d) would the next letter come
Q.351. Although I have a lot of work to do, I am determined to
finish it all by the end of the day so that I can enjoy my weekend
not having any imminent due dates.
(a) with no pending reservations
(b) not with any pressure of due date
(c) not leaving any work incomplete
(d) without any looming deadlines
Q.352. Vihaan is clumsy at dancing.
(a) easy handed (b) master skill (c) heavy duty (d) all thumbs
Q.353. The crux of the study has been delineated by the
researcher.
(a) fixed limitation (b) central point
(c) collected data (d) relevant part
Q.354. Since my friend was not feeling well, she asked me to
come over and take care of her.
(a) come through (b) come into
(c) come across (d) No improvement
Q.355. Yoga may manage pain and helping reduce stress.
(a) help in reducing (b) helped reduce
(c) help reduced (d) help reduction for
Q.356. He has grown into a beautiful youth.
(a) into a handsome youth (b) in a beautiful youth
(c) in a handsome youth (d) a beautiful youth
Q.357. We are decorate the living-room at the moment.
(a) We are being decorating (b) We are decorates
(c) We are decorating (d) We are being decorate
Q.358. Select the most appropriate option that can replace the
bracketed word segment in the following sentence.
Men (allowed) for Olympic artistic swimming for the first time at
the 2024 Paris Games, the IOC confirmed on Thursday.
(a) are eligible (b) have permitted (c) are likely (d) will approve
Q.359. As there was no one to look thorough the orphan, he had
to take refuge in the orphanage.
(a) look upon (b) look after
(c) look down upon (d) look through
Q.360. There is an old rivalry between the three families for
ages.
(a) of the three families (b) among the three families
(c) in the three families (d) No substitution required
Q.361. It is my custom to get up early in the morning.
(a) perfection (b) addiction (c) habit (d) oddity
Q.362. There was enough room in the spacious flat for all of our
furniture.
(a) cozy (b) tiny (c) roomy (d) cramped
Q.363. I consider that every matter must be considered in every
point of view.
(a) on every point (b) of every point
(c) at every point (d) from every point
Q.364. Once bitten, thrice shy.
(a) twice shy (b) always shy (c) once shy (d) never shy
Q.365. Select the option that can substitute the bracketed word
segment meaningfully.
Writing can instill a number of emotions (as in a reader).
(a) within a reader (b) among a reader
(c) instead a reader (d) until a reader
Q.366. Professor Singh is not in the office today. I ask you try
call him tomorrow.
(a) suggest you try calling (b) ask you to try called
(c) am suggesting you calling (d) asked you to call
Q.367. Bill Gates' fortune was bequeathed for the old age home.
(a) to the old age home (b) into the old age home
(c) by the old age home (d) with the old age home
Q.368. Choose an appropriate word that can substitute the
bracketed word and complete the sentence meaningfully.
He never (talks) the truth.
(a) narrates (b) declares (c) speaks (d) utters
Q.369. The small size of his store makes it impossible for him to
stock all the items.
(a) made them impossible (b) No substitution required
(c) making it impossible (d) is made it impossible
Q.370. He scores good marks in exams as he is quite
meticulous.
(a) Careful (b) Intelligent (c) Lazy (d) Selective
Q.371. Select the option that will improve the given sentence by
using the most appropriate verb.
Alexa have being working as a teacher for five years now.
(a) Alexa was been working as a teacher for five years now.
(b) Alexa has been working as a teacher for five years now.
(c) Alexa has being working as a teacher for five years now.
(d) Alexa is being working as a teacher for five years now.
Q.372. Grasslands should not be foraged and some places are
to be closed for grazing.
(a) grazed and some places is
(b) cut and few areas
(c) planted or
(d) over-grazed and some areas should be
Q.373. Things that do not come from the ground not safe to
compost.
(a) be not safe (b) are not safe
( c) has not been safe (d) is not safe
Sentence Improvement
Q.374. UNICEF builds partnerships across the global community
on accelerate gender equality.
(a) global community to accelerate
(b) global community till accelerate
(c) global community in accelerate
(d) global community with accelerate
Q.375. Allusive handwriting creates a poor impression.
(a) Eligible handwriting (b) Descriptive handwriting
(c) Illegible handwriting (d) Legal handwriting
Q.376. Mr. Sen is clever enough to handle his professional
hazards.
(a) Bold (b) Intelligent (c) Callous (d) Foolish
Sol.286.(c) can get positive conclusive value
The given sentence needs an adjective (conclusive) to describe
the noun ‘value’, and not the verb ‘conclude’. Hence, ‘can get
positive conclusive value’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.287.(d) as he had been addicted to
‘To’ is a fixed preposition used after the verb ‘addicted’. Hence,
‘as he had been addicted to’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.288.(a) credulous
‘Credulous’ means willing to believe or trust too readily. The
given sentence states that the credulous investors believed in
every word the analysts said. Hence, 'credulous' is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.289.(d) else but your pride which makes
‘Nothing … but’ or ‘Nothing else … but’ means only. The given
sentence needs the conjunction ‘but’ after ‘nothing else’ to make
it grammatically correct. Hence, ‘else but your pride which
makes’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.290.(c) called around but he wasn’t able to
‘Call around’ means to call multiple people to find information
about something. The given sentence states that Mr. Adhil
called around but he wasn’t able to find the scooter part he
needed. Hence, 'called around but he wasn’t able to' is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.291.(d) come up with
‘Come up with’ means to suggest or think of an idea or plan. The
given sentence states that we need to come up with a solution
to this problem before it gets worse. Hence, 'come up with' is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.292.(b) improve her absurd behaviour and act seriously
The phrase ‘straighten up and fly right’ means to get serious and
stop acting absurd anymore. The given sentence states that
Nina has not yet learned how to improve her absurd behaviour
and act seriously. Hence, 'improve her absurd behaviour and act
seriously' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.293.(a) helped her not only by
The same part of speech is used after pair conjunctions such as
‘not only…but also’. There is a preposition followed by
gerund(providing) after ‘but also’. Therefore, ‘not only’ will be
placed before the preposition ‘by’. Hence, ‘helped her not only by’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.294.(d) has a great effect
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb. In the given sentence,
‘positive self-talk’ is a singular subject that will take ‘has’ as a
singular verb. Also, the adjective ‘great’ needs a noun to qualify
its meaning. Hence, ‘has a great effect’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.295.(b) the best
‘Best’ is the correct superlative degree of ‘good’. Hence, ‘the
best’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.296.(d) tattooed on their skin
‘On’ is used to indicate the surface in contact with the object.
Similarly, the tattoo lies on the surface of the skin. Hence,
‘tattooed on their skin’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.297.(a) will get
The given sentence is an example of the first conditional
sentence and the correct grammatical structure is “if + simple
present…….will +V 1 ”. Hence ‘will get(V 1 )’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.298.(b) of the Mauryan Emperors
‘Than’ is used with comparative degree while ‘of’ is used after
the superlative degree. ‘The + superlative adjective + of + plural
noun/pronoun’ is the correct structure. Hence, 'of the Mauryan
Emperors' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.299.(c) didn't
The given sentence is in the past tense, so it must have the verb
of past tense. ‘Did’ is a helping verb of simple past tense. Hence,
didn’t is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.300.(c) chime prettily
‘Chime’ means (of a bell or clock) make melodious ringing
sounds. The given passage states that I picked up my little clock
and it began to chime prettily. Hence, ‘chime prettily’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.301.(b) is costlier
We use a comparative degree with ‘than’ to make a comparison
between two things. ‘Costlier’ is the correct comparative degree
of ‘costly’. Hence, ‘is costlier’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.302.(d) of race relations in America
‘Of’ means relating to something. The given sentence states that
RN Right’s literary works helped redefine discussions of race
relations in America in the mid-20th century. Hence, 'of race
relations in America' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.303.(b) Truth
‘Verity’ means the state of being true. The given sentence states
that truth is a good virtue for human life. Hence, 'Truth' is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.304.(b) he was requested
The second clause of the sentence is in the passive voice as the
doer of the action is given using the preposition ‘by’. ‘Was + V 3’ is
the correct structure for the passive voice of simple past tense.
Hence, ‘he was requested’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.305.(a) put the meeting off
The phrasal verb ‘put off’ means to postpone or delay a meeting.
The given sentence states that we will have to put the meeting
off as the Director is not well. Hence, ‘put the meeting off’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sentence Improvement
Sol.306.(c) fed up with
‘Fed up with’ means being irritated or frustrated. The given
sentence states that the person is frustrated or annoyed with
someone's complaints. Hence ‘fed up with’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.307.(a) No substitution required
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.308.(d) noticeable
‘Noticeable’ means easily seen or noticed. The given sentence
states that the skunk had a conspicuous spinal stripe. Hence,
'noticeable' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.309.(b) Severe - very serious, harsh or extreme.
Strict- someone who sticks to a particular set of rules.
Sol.310.(a) that could
‘Could’ is used to indicate possibility. The given sentence states
an advice to children that they should avoid giving out personal
details online that could identify them or their location. Hence,
‘that could’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.311.(c) does not break
‘Do/does/did + V ’ is the correct grammatical structure. Hence,
1
‘does not break’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.312.(a) until he gave up his job and lived
The given sentence is in the simple past tense so the verb must
be used in the simple past form(V ). However, the past form of
2
‘live’ is ‘lived’. Hence, ‘until he gave up his job and lived(V )’ is the
2
most appropriate answer.
Sol.313.(b) anger blazed up
‘Blaze up’ is the correct phrasal verb to use in this sentence.
‘Blaze up’ means (an emotion) to become stronger or more
extreme. The given sentence states that Dhruv’s anger blazed up
uncontrollably. Hence, 'anger blazed up' is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.314.(a) prove
‘Prove’ is the correct verb to use in this sentence. ‘Prove’ means
to show a particular result after a period of time. The given
sentence states that this win could prove to be a historic turning
point in the fortunes of the team. Hence, ‘prove’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.315.(a) affection
‘Affection’ means a strong feeling of love and care. The given
sentence states that mothers have great affection for their
children. Hence, ‘affection’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.316.(a) knock over a tower of pots
‘Knock over’ is the correct phrasal verb to use in this sentence.
‘Knock over’ means to hit or push something, especially
accidentally. The given sentence states that Sonam’s cat used to
chase the mouse into the kitchen and accidentally hit a tower of
pots and pans. Hence, 'knock over a tower of pots and pans' is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.317.(a) the ship touched the shore
‘Touch’ must be replaced with ‘Touched’. The given sentence is
in the past tense so it must have the verb in the past form(V )
2
and not in the present form (touches). Hence, ‘the ship
touched(V ) the shore’ is the most appropriate answer.
2
Sol.318.(a) warmly about
‘Warmly’ means in a very friendly way. The given sentence states
that we feel warmly about the subject. Hence, ‘warmly about’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.319.(d) to be
The given sentence uses the passive form of the verb after the
noun ‘traitor’ because ‘traitor’ is the receiver of the action(jailed).
‘Be + V ’ is the correct passive structure. Hence, ‘to be’ is the
3
most appropriate answer.
Sol.320.(d) He broke his leg yesterday.
‘Subject + V 2’ is grammatically the correct structure for a
sentence which is in the simple past tense. Hence, the sentence
given in option (d) is correct.
Sol.321.(b) as much
‘As much as’ is the correct phrase to use here. ‘As much as’ is
used to indicate an amount equal to something else. Hence, ‘as
much’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.322.(b) a very colourful illustrated children’s atlas
Sol.323.(a) in compliance with
‘With’ is a fixed preposition used with ‘comply/ compliance’.
Hence ‘in compliance with’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.324.(a) exhaustive
‘Exhaustive’ means complete and including everything. The
given sentence states that this book provides an exhaustive
account of the natural resources in India. Hence, ‘exhaustive’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.325.(c) That Macbook belongs to Xavier.
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb and a plural subject always
takes a plural verb. At the end of a singular verb, s/es is used. In
the given sentence, ‘That Macbook’ is a singular subject that will
take ‘belongs’ as a singular verb. Hence, the sentence given in
option (c) is correct.
Sol.326.(d) through
‘Through’ means from one side to the other. The given sentence
states that it will take two hours to walk through the forest.
Hence, ‘through’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.327.(d) set off
‘Set off’ is the correct phrasal verb to use here. ‘Set off’ means to
begin a journey. The given sentence states that we set off on the
journey early in the morning. Hence, ‘set off’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.328.(c) Trespassing - entering without permission.
Sol.329.(b) the fire alarm to go off
The phrasal verb ‘go off’ means to start to ring loudly. The given
sentence talks about the alarm ringing loudly due to the hat on
fire. Hence, ‘the fire alarm to go off’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.330.(c) women are the primary caregivers of
A caregiver is a paid helper who looks after a child. So, the noun
‘caregivers’ will be used before the noun ‘children’. So, the
correct phrase is ‘primary caregivers of children and elders’.
‘Women’ is a plural subject of the sentence, which takes the
plural verb ‘are’. Hence, ‘women are the primary caregivers of’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sentence Improvement
Sol.331.(d) of her body weight due to
‘Of’ is used to indicate a part or portion of something. Similarly,
in the given sentence, the woman lost a part of her body weight
due to diabetes. Hence, ‘of her body weight due to’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.332.(c) imperfect alignment
‘Alignment’ means arrangement in correct relative positions. The
given sentence talks about the imperfect relative positions of
the Sun, Earth and Moon which results in a partial lunar eclipse.
Hence, ‘imperfect alignment’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.333.(b) gifted with
‘With’ is a fixed preposition used with the adjective ‘gifted’. The
phrase ‘gifted with’ means having an exceptional talent or
natural ability. Hence, ‘gifted with’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.334.(b) took apart- dismantled something.
Took up- to begin a new activity.
Took back- to regain possession of something.
Took after- to resemble someone, usually in appearance or
behavior.
Sol.335.(a) promotes sharing of traditional
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb. At the end of a singular
verb, s/es is used. Similarly, ‘The annual seed festival’ is a
singular subject that will take ‘promotes’ as a singular verb.
Hence, ‘promotes sharing of traditional’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.336.(c) disorderly situation
‘Disarray’ means lack of order or sequence, which is
synonymous with the phrase ‘disorderly situation’. Hence,
‘disorderly situation’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.337.(c) long and angry speech
‘Tirade’ means a long angry speech of criticism or accusation.
Hence, ‘long and angry speech’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.338.(d) which was always silently rolling
‘Singular Sub (mighty river) + was + V ing ’ is the correct
grammatical structure for the given sentence which is in the
past continuous tense. Hence, ‘which was always silently
rolling(V ing )’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.339.(c) doesn’t it
The given sentence is in the simple present tense and ‘does + V ’
1
is the correct structure for it as the subject ‘it’ is singular. Hence,
doesn’t it is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.340.(a) plight
‘Plight’ means a difficult or dangerous situation. The given
sentence states that the novel highlights the plight of the
endangered species in the rainforest. Hence, ‘plight’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.341.(a) on the condition that she would return
‘Would’ is a modal used to indicate expected future when seen
from the past. As per the given sentence, the person gave a
dress in the past and expected her to return it later. Hence, ‘on
the condition that she would return’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.342.(d) in lieu of playing
Article ‘the’ is not used in the phrase ‘in lieu of’. A noun or
gerund(V ing ) is used with it. In the given sentence, a
gerund(playing) has been used with it. Hence, ‘in lieu of’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.343.(d) Refuge- shelter.
Sol.344.(c) important period
‘Epoch’ means a period of time that is very important in history.
The given sentence states that the revolt of the labourers will be
considered as an important period in the world history. Hence,
‘important period’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.345.(b) outdated
‘Obsolete’ means out of date, which is synonymous with
‘outdated’. Hence, ‘outdated’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.346.(a) apology
‘Apology’ means a statement saying that you are sorry for
something. The given sentence states that I had to write a letter
of apology to my father for the blunder I made. Hence, ‘apology’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.347.(a) All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold out.
The correct phrasal verb is ‘sold out’ which means having all
available tickets sold completely. Hence, ‘sold out’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.348.(d) affecting their capacity
A present participle phrase(V ing) is used to describe an action
the noun is doing. In the given sentence, ‘affecting their capacity’
describes the action resulting from ‘lack of skilled workers’.
Hence, ‘affecting their capacity’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.349.(c) are too close and big
‘Too + adjective + to + V 1(twinkle)’ is the correct grammatical
structure. ‘Close’ and ‘big’ are adjectives. Hence ‘are too close
and big’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.350.(b) the next letter would come
The correct structure of a clause is ‘Subject + modal + main
verb’. ‘The next letter’ is the subject of the clause, so it will be
followed by modal ‘would’ and the main verb ‘come’. Hence ‘the
next letter would come’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.351.(d) without any looming deadlines
‘Looming deadline' means a deadline that is coming soon and
must be met. ‘Imminent due date’ means a due date that is
about to happen very soon. Hence, ‘without any looking
deadlines’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.352.(d) All thumbs- clumsy.
Sol.353.(b) central point
‘Crux’ means the most important or central point of something.
Hence, ‘central point’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.354.(d) No improvement
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.355.(a) help in reducing
‘May’ is a modal that will take the first form of the verb, ‘help’.
‘Help in + V ’ is the correct grammatical structure. Hence, ‘help
ing
in reducing’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.356.(a) into a handsome youth
‘Beautiful’ must be replaced by ‘handsome’. We generally use
Sentence Improvement
‘handsome’ to describe men and we use ‘beautiful’ to describe
women. Hence, ‘into a handsome youth’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.357.(c) We are decorating
The phrase ‘at the moment’ describes an action happening right
now. And we generally use present continuous tense (is/am/are
+ V-ing) to denote an action happening in the present. Hence,
‘We are decorating’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.358.(a) are eligible
‘Eligible’ means qualified to participate in a sport. The given
sentence is talking about the sport of swimming. Hence, ‘are
eligible’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.359.(b) look after
‘Look after’ must be used in place of ‘look through’. ‘Look after’
is a phrasal verb which means to take care of someone. The
given sentence states that there was no one to take care of the
orphan. Hence, ‘look after’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.360.(b) among the three families
‘Between’ must be replaced by ‘Among’. We use ‘among’ for
more than two entities and ‘between’ for two entities. However,
there are three families mentioned in the given sentence. Hence,
‘among the three families’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.361.(c) Habit
‘Habit’ means something that you do often and regularly. The
given sentence states that it is my habit to get up early in the
morning. Hence, ‘habit’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.362.(c) roomy
‘Roomy’ means having a lot of space. The given sentence states
that there was enough room in the roomy flat for all of our
furniture. Hence, ‘roomy’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.363.(d) from every point
‘From’ is used to show somebody’s point of view. Hence, ‘from
every point’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.364.(a) twice shy
‘Once bitten, twice shy’ is an idiom which means you are
frightened to do something again because you had an
unpleasant experience doing it the first time. Hence, option (a) is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.365.(a) within a reader
‘Within’ means inside. The given sentence states that writing can
instill a number of emotions within a reader. Hence, ‘within a
reader’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.366.(a) suggest you try calling
‘Suggest’ to mention an action for other people to consider.
‘Suggest’ is a stative verb, so it will be used in the simple present
tense, rather than present continuous tense. Hence, ‘suggest you
try calling’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.367.(a) to the old age home
‘To’ is used to indicate the receiver of an action or thing. In the
given sentence, ‘to’ has been used to indicate the receiver of Bill
Gate’s fortune. Hence, ‘to the old age home’ is the correct
answer.
Sol.368.(c) speaks
‘Speak the truth’ is the correct phrase. Hence, ‘speaks’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.369.(b) No substitution required.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.370.(a) Meticulous - careful.
Sol.371.(c)
Alexa has been working as a teacher for five years now.
The given sentence is in the present perfect continuous tense
and follows the structure ‘Singular subject + has been + V ing’.
Hence, the sentence given in option (c) is correct.
Sol.372.(d) over-grazed and some areas should be
‘Overgrazed’ means to eat too much grass in an area, which
damages the environment. To maintain consistency with the
first part, ‘should’ has been used again in the second part.
Hence, ‘over-grazed and some areas should be’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.373.(b) are not safe
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb and a plural subject always
takes a plural verb. In the given sentence, ‘things’ is a plural
subject that will take ‘are’ as a plural verb. Hence, ‘are not safe’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.374.(a) global community to accelerate
‘To + V ’ is the correct grammatical structure. Hence, ‘global
1
community to accelerate(V 1 )’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.375.(c) Illegible handwriting
‘Illegible handwriting’ means writing that is difficult to read
because it is unclear. The given sentence states that illegible
handwriting creates a poor impression. Hence, ‘Illegible
handwriting’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.376.(b) Intelligent
‘Intelligent’ means someone who is smart or knowledgeable.
The given sentence states that Mr. Sen is intelligent enough to
handle his professional hazards. Hence, ‘intelligent’ is the most
appropriate answer.
eduquity-based pattern (ebp)
Questions (377 to 467)
Q.377. The housing loan taken by Ramesh effected his daily
expenses adversely.
(a) from Ramesh effected (b) of Ramesh effected
(c) by Ramesh affected (d) for Ramesh effected
Q.378. Although uncountable files stack up on the tables of
government officials, they prefer doing their work at a more
leisure pace.
(a) No improvement needed (b) at a more leisure paced
(c) at a more leisurely pace (d) at a more leisurely paced
Q.379. Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the
underlined word in the given sentence.
It was a privvilege to receive the award from the President.
(a) privillege (b) privilegge (c) privileege (d) privilege
Q.380. Select the most appropriate option that can replace the
bracketed word segment in the following sentence.
Classical buildings in ancient Greek and Roman times were
(characteristically built) from marble or some other attractive,
durable stone.
Sentence Improvement
(a) strange build (b) typically built
(c) fascinating to build (d) mainly having been built
Q.381. We shall rehearse thrice before the final performance at
least we make errors in the dialogues.
(a) can we make errors (b) for we make errors
(c) lest we make errors (d) but we make errors
Q.382. This newly arisen evidence could have proved to finally
put the culprit behind bars.
(a) could have been proven (b) can be proven
(c) is proof (d) can proof
Q.383. If you give away smoking, your health will improve.
(a) give off (b) give out (c) No substitution required (d) give up
Q.384. There was some drawing-pins in my desk.
(a) There is some (b) Theirs some
(c) There has some (d) There are some
Q.385. The common masses have waited for three hours to
meet the king in the royal court.
(a) had waiting (b) will waiting
(c) has been waiting (d) have been waiting
Q.386. This serum contains ingredients enabling the hair to
grow.
(a) for growth hair (b) the enable grow hair
(c) for growing many hair (d) that enable the hair to grow
Q.387. She argued against the unnecessary split in the
committee.
(a) combination (b) mix (c) division (d) blend
Q.388. Had you been to Dubai, I would also go with you.
(a) I shall be gone (b) I will have went
(c) I would have gone (d) I would has also gone
Q.389. Select the word segment from the options that can
substitute the bracketed word segment meaningfully.
Telangana artists (are know for the amazing bronze castings).
(a) Have been knew to the amazing bronze castings
(b) Are known for their amazing bronze castings
(c) Is known to the amazing bronze castings
(d) Have to know the amazing bronze castings
Q.390. It has been found that the trees are being destroyed by a
moth.
(a) is being destroyed (b) have been destroying
(c) No substitution required (d) have destroyed
Q.391. No sooner did we reach at the party that it began to rain.
(a) before it began to rain (b) as it began to rain
(c) it began to rain (d) than it began to rain
Q.392. The interdisciplinary approach utilised in this study
facilitates comprehensive understanding of the complex
phenomenon under investigation.
(a) is facilitates a comprehensive understanding
(b) will have facilitated a comprehensive understanding
(c) utilises a comprehensive understanding
(d) facilitated a comprehensive understanding
Q.393. He passed away in the year 1950 at 10 a.m. on 13 July.
(a) in the year 1950 at 10 a.m. on 13 July
(b) on 13 July at 10 a.m. in the year 1950
(c) at 10 a.m. on 13 July in the year 1950
(d) in the year 1950 on 13 July at 10 a.m.
Q.394. I was in Oman around two months.
(a) from (b) into (c) since (d) for
Q.395. The meeting closed with a vote of thanks.
(a) stopped (b) finished (c) completed (d) concluded
Q.396. At his wit’s end, he decided to return to his parents as he
was unable to cope up with the stress of adjusting at a new
place.
(a) After thinking (b) Taking all notes
(c) Not knowing what to do (d) Deciding after contemplation
Q.397. Peter was the last to know that she had been cheating of
him
(a) cheating in him (b) cheating up him
(c) cheating on him (d) cheat of him
Q.398. The film was made in Botswana, whose wildlife parks is
larger to those in Kenya.
(a) are large than (b) No substitution required
(c) are larger than (d) as large than
Q.399. I opened the box beneath the table and took of a book,
the Materia Medica.
(a) No substitution required (b) take off
(c) took in (d) took out
Q.400. Do not later about the street.
(a) latter about (b) loiter around (c) litter about (d) litre about
Q.401. The experienced surgeon handled the delicate procedure
with care and precision.
(a) unskilled (b) amateur (c) seasoned (d) untrained
Q.402. Planning to go for a movie just before the final-year
examination is nothing but skating on thin ice.
(a) doing hard work (b) enjoying the moment
(c) going to hill stations (d) being in a risky situation
Q.403. Shakespeare is greater than any other English poet.
(a) was great than (b) was greater than
(c) is greatest than (d) is greater than
Q.404. I prefer walking than riding.
(a) walking with riding (b) walking above riding
(c) walking from riding (d) walking to riding
Q.405. Youth is the time when the seeds of character is sown.
(a) the seeds of character had been sown
(b) the seeds of character were sown
(c) the seeds of character will have been sowing
(d) the seeds of character are sown
Q.406. An awkward neither grammatically accurate sentence is
the result of centre implanting.
(a) awkward unless grammatically
(b) awkward either grammatically
(c) awkward beyond grammatically
(d) awkward but grammatically
Q.407. The referee declared that the participant who will score
the highest points in the tally will take away the cash prize of ₹50
lakh.
(a) who can score the highest point
(b) who could score the highest point
Sentence Improvement
(c) who scores the highest point
(d) who settles scores the highest point
Q.408. My friends are on a trip to the world.
(a) within the world (b) around the world
(c) by the world (d) in the world
Q.409. The Government must strive to provide a/an fair and
square deal to the citizen of its country.
(a) violent and immoral (b) honest and straightforward
(c) exclusive and unreal (d) forward and backward
Q.410. The culprit had been shot from the back by the police
inspector.
(a) by (b) off (c) in (d) to
Q.411. Though Kalpana listened to Sheetal carefully, she knew
that she should take it with a grain of salt.
(a) regard it as exaggerated and not completely true
(b) move according to the trend
(c) be do it meticulously as taking salt
(d) accept it as really useful and worthy
Q.412. The author’s writing style is characterised by its poetic
language.
(a) simple language (b) lucid language
(c) prosaic language (d) lyrical language
Q.413. Read the books of APJ Abdul Kalam, who was a scholar.
(a) a dare devil (b) a queer fish
(c) a man of straw (d) a man of letters
Q.414. My friend vanished when the goons came to fight with
me.
(a) mobilised when the thugs arrived
(b) attacked when the thugs arrived
(c) disappeared when the thugs arrived
(d) condemned when the thugs arrived
Q.415. If I was very rich, I would spend all my time and money
for the poor.
(a) If I am very rich (b) No substitution
(c) If I have much riches (d) If I were very rich
Q.416. Last night, I failed to sleep because of some familiar
issues that couldn't be avoided.
(a) incapable (b) inevitable (c) unthinkable (d) unsolvable
Q.417. No sooner had she finished her breakfast that she had
received a phone call from her boss, informing her that she
needed to come to work immediately.
(a) than she receives (b) than she received
(c) that she receives (d) that she received
Q.418. After he leave, we discussed his suggestion.
(a) he has left (b) he was leaving
(c) he had left (d) he will be leaving
Q.419. Though very informative, Shweta's article was
mercilessly rejected of the editor.
(a) was mercilessly rejected by
(b) was mercilessly rejected of
(c) was mercilessly rejected each
(d) was mercilessly rejected on
Q.420. Mathew decided to complete the marathon to prove that
he is still fit as a fiddle in his eighties.
(a) an owner of a fit horse (b) a fit and energetic person
(c) a man of great qualities (d) proud and unreliable
Q.421. My son will carry out my business in my absence.
(a) carry for (b) carry on (c) carry in (d) carry at
Q.422. It is a fact that the same judgement can often be taken
by more than one way.
(a) be taken in more than (b) be taken on more than
(c) be taken of more than (d) be taken for more than
Q.423. The company plans to expand its business to the
international market.
(a) to limit (b) to contract (c) to reduce (d) to increase
Q.424. He always used to say that he was not a beggar by
choice and if someone could employ him, he would like to eat.
(a) live to work (b) listen to me
(c) love to work (d) linger at work
Q.425. The manager, decided at last to bring the stenographer to
book for her illegal money transactions after trying to ignore it
several times.
(a) bring her for a detailed investigation
(b) take her into great confidence
(c) make her accountable for her conduct
(d) place her in a safe supportive position
Q.426. In yesterday’s fire accident, her feets are burnt badly.
(a) her feet was (b) her feet were
(c) her foots were (d) No substitution
Q.427. Select the most appropriate option with correct usage of
the preposition to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The Centre of Excellence for Data Analytics (CEDA) provides
quality data analytic services to various government
departments on all levels as well as to public sector units at the
Centre and in states.
(a) various government departments at all levels
(b) various government departments from all levels
(c) various government departments in all levels
(d) various government departments through all levels
Q.428. You have tears, prepare to shed them now.
(a) Until you have tears (b) Yet you have tears,
(c) Unless you have tears, (d) If you have tears,
Q.429. Select the word segment that can substitute the
bracketed word segment correctly and complete the sentence
Meaningfully.
The minister promised to provide free laptops to the public if his
(party came in power).
(a) he loses the election (b) party loses the election
(c) party forms the government (d) he comes to a party
Q.430. This is the group of leaders in whom the ruling
government has placed its trust.
(a) no substitution
(b) in who the ruling government
(c) on who the ruling government
(d) with who the ruling government
Q.431 During the preparation for competitive exams, Meena
avoided going to parties.
(a) steered clear of (b) cracked a joke
(c) fired a cracker (d) whispered a secret
Sentence Improvement
Q.432. The woman to who I sold my house was a criminal.
(a) to whom sold (b) No substitution
(c) to whom I sold (d) to whom I sell
Q.433. A sharp fall in the price of jute have led the poor jute
farmers to the brink of starvation.
(a) No substitution
(b) have led the poor farmers
(c) have lead the poor jute farmers
(d) has led the poor jute farmers
Q.434. We should not underestimate the signification of female
education.
(a) underestimate signification
(b) underestimate at signification
(c) underestimate the significance
(d) underestimate on signification
Q.435. Half of the property given to his sons by the
businessman last year.
(a) Half of the property has been given
(b) Half of the property was given
(c) No substitution
(d) Half of the property is given
Q.436. Even after becoming bankrupt, Charlie is able to maintain
an outward show.
(a) bell the cat (b) cut a sorry figure
(c) bring down the house (d) keep up appearance
Q.437. Amit is also a chip off the old block like his brother,
Tandon.
(a) resembling his parents in character and appearance
(b) talking to others tough like a stone
(c) planning things ahead neatly
(d) getting ready for the future endeavours
Q.438. Reena decided not to go to work today because she was
feeling sick.
(a) sitting on the fence (b) fit as a fiddle
(c) going down in flames (d) under the weather
Q.439. He wanted to visiting the Golden Temple in Amritsar.
(a) wanted to visited (b) wanted to visit
(c) wanted to be visit (d) wanted to visitor
Q.440. His interpretation of the facts was impressive.
(a) understands of realities (b) understood of realities
(c) understanding of realities (d) understand of realities
Q.441. Select the most appropriate option that can substitute
the underlined segment in the given idiom.
A piece of biscuit
(a) Toast (b) pastry (c) cake (d) tart
Q.442. Had I known that you were planning to visit me, I should
have done all the necessary arrangements.
(a) I would have do (b) I would have made
(c) I must have made (d) I should have made
Q.443. What exactly have the teachers being doing wrong ?
(a) teachers have been doing (b) teachers are doing
(c) teachers been doing (d) teachers being done
Q.444. If his father will give money, he will buy a sports bike.
(a) If his father gives money (b) No substitution
(c) If his father give money (d) If his father gave money
Q.445. I have been living without a lot of money since I lost my
job.
(a) living hand to mouth (b) receiving a kickback
(c) keeping my chin up (d) as genuine as a three-dollar bill
Q.446. The road is too busy for elderly people that they cannot
cross safely.
(a) that it is impossible for them to cross
(b) to cross safely
(c) that it cannot be crossed properly.
(d) that it is difficult to cross.
Q.447. Select the most appropriate option with correct usage of
the preposition to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The core part in Artificial Intelligence (AI) is knowledge
engineering, machine learning, machine perception, and
robotics.
(a) The core part from Artificial Intelligence
(b) The core part with Artificial Intelligence
(c) The core part of Artificial Intelligence
(d) The core part on Artificial Intelligence
Q.448. The veteran footballer was expected for reach here by 10
o’clock, the notice said.
(a) expected to reach here (b) expected on reach here
(c) expected of reach here (d) expected by reach here
Q.449. Mr. Patel is likely to win the elections in the sweeping
majority.
(a) elections of a sweeping majority
(b) elections on a sweeping majority
(c) elections at a sweeping majority
(d) elections by a sweeping majority
Q.450. Not a word didn’t they speak to the others about the sad
turn of events.
(a) did they speak (b) had they speak
(c) No substitution (d) do they speak
Q.451. Before she began, she asked the teacher whether she
write with a pen or a pencil.
(a) she wrote (b) she can write
(c) she should write (d) she did write.
Q.452. The Sumo wrestler seemed to be incapable in being tired.
(a) incapable from being tired (b) incapable by being tired
(c) incapable of being tired (d) incapable to being tired
Q.453. My grandmother helps us in all the problems. She has a
remedy for all the diseases.
(a) ‘Service’ (b) Panacea (c) Fanatic (d) Heretic
Q.454. He is feeding a male dog and female dog
(a) a male dog and lady dog (b) No substitution
(c) a dog and a bitch (d) a dog and puppy
Q.455. What flavour ice cream do you want?
(a) ice cream flavoured (b) flavours ice cream
(c) No improvement required (d) flavour of ice cream
Q.456. The quality of students of an educational institute is of
great importance and a crucial starting point
(a) The quality of students in an educational institute is in great
importance and a crucial starting point.
(b) No substitution
Sentence Improvement
(c) The quality of students in an educational institute is of great
importance and is a crucial start point
(d) The quality of students in an educational institute is of great
importance and a crucial starting point.
Q.457. The serenity of the river was a sight to behold.
(a) ready to be sold (b) inviting for boating
(c) confusing for all (d) pleasant to see
Q.458. Inspite mother’s milk is vital to a child’s health, a number
of FMCG companies wrongly advertise artificially prepared
infant formulas as being the best for the child.
(a) Mother’s milk (b) Though mother’s milk
(c) No substitution (d) Despite mother’s milk
Q.459. She asked me where my hometown is and where I
worked.
(a) hometown would be (b) hometown was
(c) hometown were (d) hometown has been
Q.460. Ice melts fastly in the sun.
(a) melt fast (b) melts fastest (c) melts fast (d) melt fastly
Q.461. All the kith and kin of my deceased landlady were present
to attend her funeral.
(a) secret enemies (b) blood relatives
(c) office colleagues (d) special students
Q.462. You have hurt so many people. Now, it is time to get a
taste of your own medicine.
(a) to be treated the way you have treated others
(b) to be in a risky situation
(c) to lose control in a situation
(d) to benefit from two different opportunities
.
Q.463. Stop beating around the bush and tell me what is
expected out of me.
(a) revealing a secret to everyone
(b) misunderstanding the situation
(c) avoiding to talk about the issue
(d) getting the conversation going
Q.464. I have been yet to go to the flower exhibition at Delhi
University.
(a) have yet been (b) have yet being
(c) had been yet (d) have yet
Q.465. Select the option that can substitute the bracketed word
segment correctly and complete the following sentence
meaningfully.
You all need to (get into) the books prescribed in your syllabus.
(a) read abreast (b) read about (c) go through (d) go about
Q.466. She faced a session of abuse after insisting that she was
too beautiful to be liked.
(a) recital of abuse (b) tirade of abuse
(c) declamation of abuse (d) recitation of abuse
Q.467. This secret will remain between you and I.
(a) between you (b) among you and I
(c) between I and you (d) between you and me
Sol.377.(c) by Ramesh affected
‘Effected’ must be replaced with ‘affected’ as the given sentence
needs a verb. Hence ‘by Ramesh affected’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.378.(c) at a more leisurely pace
The given sentence needs an adjective to describe the noun
‘pace’. ‘More leisurely’ is the comparative form of the adjective
‘leisurely’. Hence, ‘at a more leisurely pace’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.379.(d) privilege
‘Privilege’ is the correct spelling.
Sol.380.(b) typically built
‘Typically’ means in a way that shows the characteristics of a
particular kind of thing. The given sentence states that classical
buildings in ancient aGreek and Roman times were typically built
from marble or some other attractive, durable stone. Hence,
‘typically built’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.381.(c) lest we make errors
‘Lest’ is used in order to prevent something from happening. The
given sentence talks about rehearsing thrice in order to prevent
errors in the dialogues. Hence, ‘lest we make errors’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.382.(c) is proof
Evidence does not need to be proved. Evidence itself is proof
that something happened or is true. Hence, ‘is proof’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.383.(d) give up
The phrasal verb ‘give up’ means to stop doing something. The
given sentence states that if you give up smoking, your health
will improve. Hence, ‘give up’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.384.(d) There are some
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb and a plural subject always
takes a plural verb. In the given sentence, ‘drawing pins’ is a
plural subject that will take ‘are’ as a plural verb. Hence, ‘There
are some’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.385.(d) have been waiting
Present perfect continuous tense is used when the time period
is given using the preposition ‘for’. ‘Plural Sub. + have been + V ’
ing
is the correct grammatical structure for this sentence. Hence,
‘have been waiting’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.386.(d) that enable the hair to grow
'That' is a relative pronoun used to introduce a relative clause,
which provides additional information about a noun. Here, the
clause provides additional information about the ingredients.
Hence, ‘that enable the hair to grow’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.387.(c) Split - division.
Sol.388.(c) I would have gone
The given sentence is an example of a third conditional
sentence and the correct grammatical structure for it is “had +
Subject + been …….. would have + V 3”. Hence, ‘I would have
gone(V 3)’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.389.(b) are known for their amazing bronze castings
The given sentence is a passive voice of simple present tense
and the subject ‘Telangana artists’ is plural. ‘Plural Subject + are
+ V 3’ is the correct grammatical structure for it. Hence, ‘are
Sentence Improvement
known for the amazing bronze castings’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.390.(c) No substitution required
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.391.(d) than it began to rain
‘That’ must be replaced by ‘than’. ‘No sooner…than’ is a fixed
conjunction pair. Hence, ‘than it began to rain’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.392.(d) facilitated a comprehensive understanding
The given sentence is in the simple past tense, so the verb must
be used in the simple past form(V 2). Hence, ‘facilitated(V 2) a
comprehensive understanding’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.393.(c) at 10 a.m. on 13 July in the year 1950
The correct order is time followed by day, month and then the
year. Hence, ‘at 10 a.m. on 13 July in the year 1950’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.394.(d) for
‘Around’ must be replaced with ‘for’ as ‘for’ is used to indicate a
period of time. Hence, ‘for two months’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.395.(d) concluded
‘Concluded’ means to bring something to an end or finish,
particularly in a formal context. The given sentence states that
the meeting concluded with a vote of thanks. Hence, ‘concluded’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.396.(c) At his wit’s end- not knowing what to do.
Sol.397.(c) cheating on him
There is a prepositional error in the given sentence. ‘Cheat on
someone’ is the correct phrase. Hence, 'cheating on him' is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.398.(c) are larger than
‘Wildlife parks’ is a plural subject that will take ‘are’ as a plural
verb. ‘Than’ is used with a comparative degree to make a
comparison. Hence, ‘are larger than’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.399.(d) took out
The phrasal verb ‘take out’ means to remove something from
somewhere. The given sentence states that I opened the box
and took out a book, the Materia Medica. Hence, ‘took out’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.400.(b) loiter around
The correct phrase is ‘loiter around’ which means to hang
around or stay in an area without any specific purpose. Hence,
‘loiter around’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.401.(c) seasoned
‘Experienced’ must be replaced with ‘seasoned’ which means
highly experienced and skilled, especially after many years of
practice. The given sentence states that the seasoned surgeon
handled the delicate procedure with care and precision. Hence,
‘seasoned’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.402.(d) Skating on thin ice - being in a risky situation.
Sol.403.(b) was greater than
‘Shakespeare’ is a late (not alive) English poet. So, we need to
use the past form(V 2 ) of the verb to indicate the simple past
tense. Hence, ‘was greater than’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.404.(d) walking to riding
‘To’ is a fixed preposition used after the verb ‘prefer’. Hence,
‘walking to riding’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.405.(d) the seeds of character are sown
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a plural subject
always takes a plural verb. In the given sentence, ‘seeds’ is a
plural subject that will take ‘are’ as a plural verb. Hence, ‘the
seeds of character are sown’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.406.(d) awkward but grammatically
‘But’ is used to indicate a contrasting idea. Similarly, the word
‘awkward’ contrasts with the idea ‘grammatically accurate’.
Hence, ‘awkward but grammatically’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.407.(c) who scores the highest point
‘Scoring the highest points’ is a general rule or condition for
taking away the cash prize of ₹50 lakh. Simple present tense is
used to state a general truth or condition. ‘Singular Sub. +
V 1 -s/es’ is the correct grammatical structure. Hence, ‘who
scores the highest point’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.408.(b) around the world
‘To’ is used for a fixed or particular location. Whereas ‘around’ is
used with ‘world’. Hence, ‘around the world’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.409.(b) Fair and square- honest and straightforward.
Sol.410.(c) in
Here, ‘in’ will be used to indicate that the bullet that was shot by
the police inspector hit the back of the culprit. Hence, ‘in’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.411.(a) Take it with a grain of salt- regard it as exaggerated
and not completely true.
Sol.412.(d) lyrical language
‘Lyrical’ means poetic and romantic. The given sentence states
that the author’s writing style is characterised by its poetic
language. Hence, ‘lyrical language’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.413.(d) A man of letters - a scholar.
Sol.414.(c) disappeared when the thugs arrived
‘Vanish’ means to disappear suddenly and completely. ‘Goon’
means a thug hired to commit acts of violence or intimidation.
Hence, ‘disappeared when the thugs came’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.415.(d) If I were very rich
The phrase ‘If I were’ is used to refer to an imaginary situation. ‘If
I were … would + V ’ is the correct grammatical structure. Hence,
1
‘If I were very rich’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.416.(b) Inevitable - a situation which cannot be avoided.
Sol.417.(b) than she received
‘No sooner…than’ is a fixed conjunction pair. If there are two
actions in the past, the 1st action is written in past perfect tense
(had + V 3) and the 2nd action is written in simple past tense(V 2).
Hence, ‘than she received(V 2)’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sentence Improvement
Sol.418.(c) he had left
If two actions happened in the past, 1st action is written in past
perfect tense(had + V 3 ) and 2nd action is written in simple past
tense(V 2 ). The action of leaving happened first. Hence, ‘he had
left(V 3 )’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.419.(a) was mercilessly rejected by
‘By’ is used in passive voice to indicate the doer of the action.
Similarly, ‘editor’ is the doer of the action of rejecting. Hence,
‘was mercilessly rejected by’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.420.(b) Fit as a fiddle - a fit and energetic person
Sol.421.(b) carry on
‘Carry on’ means to continue a task or an activity. The given
sentence states that my son will carry on my business in my
absence. Hence, ‘carry on’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.422.(a) be taken in more than
The phrasal verb ‘take in’ means to understand something that
you read or hear. The given sentence states that it is a fact that
the same judgement can be taken in more than one way. Hence,
‘be taken in more than’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.423.(d) to increase
‘Expand’ means to increase the extent or scope of something.
The given sentence states that the company plans to increase
its business to the international market. Hence, ‘to increase’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.424.(c) love to work
The given sentence talks about a person who is not a beggar by
choice. This means he would love to work if somebody could
employ him. Hence, ‘love to work’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.425.(c) make her accountable for her conduct
‘Bring someone to book’ is an idiom which means to hold
someone accountable for something they have done. Hence,
‘make her accountable for her conduct’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.426.(b) her feet were
‘Yesterday’ indicates past tense. ‘Feets’ is incorrect as ‘feet’ is
the correct plural form of ‘foot’. Hence, ‘her feet were’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.427.(a) various government departments at all levels
‘At’ is used to indicate the position, rank or level of something.
Hence, ‘various government departments at all levels’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.428.(d) If you have tears
‘If’ is used to provide the condition under which something
happens. Similarly, in the given sentence, having tears is the
condition for shedding tears. Hence, ‘If you have tears’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.429.(c) party forms the government
‘To come into power’ means to form the government. The given
sentence states that the minister promised to provide free
laptops to the public if his party forms the government. Hence,
‘party forms the government’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.430.(a) no substitution
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.431.(a) steered clear of
The phrase ‘steer clear of’ means to deliberately avoid
something. Hence, ‘steered clear of’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.432.(c) to whom I sold
‘To’ is a preposition and we generally use an objective case
pronoun after any preposition. Therefore, ‘who’ must be replaced
with ‘whom’. Hence, ‘to whom I sold’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.433.(d) has led the poor jute farmers
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb and a plural subject always
takes a plural verb. In the given sentence, ‘A sharp fall’ is a
singular subject that will take ‘has’ as a singular verb. Hence,
‘has led the poor jute farmers’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.434.(c) underestimate the significance
‘Significance’ is the correct word to use here. ‘Significance’
means importance or meaningfulness. The given sentence
states that we should not underestimate the significance of
female education. Hence, ‘underestimate the significance’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.435.(b) Half of the property was given
The given sentence is in the passive voice as the doer of the
action is given after the preposition ‘by’. The phrase ‘last year’
indicates simple past tense. ‘Singular Sub. + was + V ’ is the
3
correct grammatical structure for the passive voice of simple
past tense. Hence, ‘Half of the property was given(V )’ is the
3
most appropriate answer.
Sol.436.(d) Keep up appearance- maintain an outward show.
E.g.- Even though he was worried, he kept up appearances and
smiled.
Sol.437.(a) chip off the old block- resembling his parents in
character and appearance.
Sol.438.(d) Under the weather- feeling sick.
Sol.439.(b) wanted to visit
‘To + V 1 ’ , also known as an infinitive, is the correct grammatical
structure. Hence, ‘wanted to visit(V 1)’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.440.(c) understanding of realities
We generally use a noun, pronoun or a gerund(V ) as the
ing
subject of a sentence. Hence, ‘understanding(V ing ) of realities’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.441.(c) A piece of cake - something very easy to do.
E.g.- For him, fixing computers is a piece of cake.
Sol.442.(b) I would have made
The given sentence is an example of the third conditional
sentence and ‘’(if + Sub. + had + V )/(Had + Sub. + V ) … would
3 3
have + V ’ is the correct grammatical structure for it. Therefore,
3
‘should’ must be replaced with ‘would’. Hence, ‘I would have
made(V )’ is the most appropriate answer.
3
Sol.443.(c) teachers been doing
‘Have been + V ing’ is the correct grammatical structure for the
sentence which is in the present perfect continuous tense.
Hence, ‘teachers been doing(V ing)’ is the most appropriate
Sentence Improvement
answer.
Sol.444.(a) If his father gives money
The given sentence is an example of the first conditional
sentence and ‘if + Simple Present Tense… will + V ’ is the correct
1
grammatical structure for it. ‘Father’ is a singular subject that
will take ‘gives’ as a singular verb. Hence, ‘If his father gives
money’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.445.(a) living hand to mouth- living without a lot of money.
Sol.446.(b) to cross safely
‘Too + adjective/ adverb + to + V ’ is the correct grammatical
1
structure. Hence, ‘to cross(V ) safely’ is the most appropriate
1
answer.
Sol.447.(c) The core part of Artificial Intelligence ‘Of’ is used to
indicate a part or component of something. The given sentence
talks about the core part of Artificial Intelligence. Hence, ‘The
core part of Artificial intelligence’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.448.(a) expected to reach here
There are some verbs that are followed by an infinitive(to + V 1).
These verbs are ‘agree, decide, appear, expect, fail, afford, wish,
aim, etc’. Hence, ‘expected to reach(V ) here’ is the most
1
appropriate answer.
Sol.449.(d) elections by a sweeping majority
‘By’ is used to indicate the amount or extent of something. In the
given sentence, ‘by’ has been used to indicate the amount of
majority in the elections. Hence, ‘elections by a sweeping
majority’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.450.(a) did they speak
The given sentence talks about the sad turn of events in the
past. ‘Did + V 1’ is the correct grammatical structure for the
sentence which is in the simple past tense. Hence, ‘did they
speak(V 1 )’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.451.(c) she should write
‘Should’ is used to indicate what is probable. Pen and pencil are
probable ways to write. Hence, ‘she should write’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.452.(c) incapable of being tired
‘Of’ is a fixed preposition used after ‘capable / incapable’. Hence,
‘incapable of being fired’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.453.(b) Panacea - a remedy for all the diseases.
Service- the occupation or function of serving.
Fanatic- a person who is extremely interested in something.
Heretic- a person whose religious beliefs are believed to be
wrong or evil.
Sol.454.(c) a dog and a bitch
A female dog is called a bitch. Hence, ‘a dog and a bitch’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.455.(d) flavour of ice cream
‘Of’ is used to show one thing related to another. Similarly,
flavour is related to ice cream. Hence, ‘flavour of ice cream’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.456.(d) The quality of students in an educational institute is
of great importance and a crucial starting point.
The phrase ‘students of an educational institute’ must be
replaced with ‘students in an educational institute’. We generally
use the preposition ‘in’ to indicate the presence or location of
something inside something else. The given sentence talks
about the quality of students present in an educational institute.
Hence, option (d) is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.457.(d) pleasant to see
The phrase ‘a sight to behold’ means a person is extremely
pleased to see it. Hence, ‘pleasant to see’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.458.(b) Though mother’s milk
‘Though’ is used to express contrast between two ideas. The
given sentence states that mother’s milk is vital to a child's
health, which contrasts with the advertisement of artificially
prepared infant formulas. Hence, “Though mother’s milk” is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.459.(b) hometown was
The given sentence is in the past tense, therefore, we will use the
helping verb of past tense. ‘Is’ must be replaced with ‘was’.
Hence, ‘hometown was’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.460.(c) melts fast
‘Fastly’ is an incorrect word. ‘Fast’ is an adverb which modifies
the verb ‘melts’. Hence, ‘melts fast’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.461.(b) Kith and kin - blood relatives.
Sol.462.(a) To get a taste of your own medicine- to be treated
the way you have treated others.
Sol.463.(c) Beating around the bush- avoiding to talk about the
issue.
Sol.464.(d) have yet
The given sentence is in the active voice as the subject ‘I’ is the
being considered the doer of the action. Therefore, ‘been’ will be
removed from the sentence. ‘Have to’ is a semi-modal and takes
the first form of the verb(go) after it. Hence, ‘have yet’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.465.(c) go through
‘Go through’ is a phrasal verb which means to study something
in detail. The given sentence states that you all need to go
through the books prescribed in your syllabus. Hence, ‘go
through’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.466.(b) tirade of abuse
‘Tirade of abuse’ is the correct phrase to use here. It means a
long angry speech in which someone criticies a person. The
given sentence states that she faced a tirade of abuse after
insisting that she was too beautiful to be liked. Hence, ‘tirade of
abuse’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.467.(d) between you and me
A preposition takes an objective case pronoun after it. ‘Between’
is a preposition that will take ‘me’ instead of ‘I’. Hence, ‘between
you and me’ is the most appropriate answer.
eduquity-based pattern (ebp)
Questions (468 to 558)
Q.468. The plot of the story effects the character and their
growth.
Sentence Improvement
(a) affect the character’s (b) affects the character
(c) effect the character (d) affect the character
Q.469. The enigma of quantum mechanics remains inscrutably
elusive despite of decades of intensive research by the world's
leading physicists.
(a) despite of decades in (b) despite decades of
(c) despite of decades to (d) despite decades with
Q.470. The train left before I reached the station.
(a) left before I had reached (b) had left before I reached
(c) left before I have reached (d) No substitution
Q.471. She met my cousin, whose she later married.
(a) whom she later married (b) she later married
(c) which she later married (d) No substitution required
Q.472. I decided to call out to various bookstores in the area to
see if any of them had the book I needed.
(a) call on (b) No substitution required (c) call around (d) call off
Q.473. This lesser known heritage building is so beautiful as the
Red Fort.
(a) This less known heritage building is much beautiful than the
Red Fort.
(b) This heritage building is as beautiful as the Red Fort.
(c) This lesser known heritage building is very much beautiful as
the Red Fort.
(d) This lesser known heritage building is as much beautiful as
the Red Fort.
Q.474. Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. One of
the parts may contain an error. Select the option that rectifies
the error. If you don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your
answer.
It was the home minister of the country who took the decision to
change a laws pertaining to migration of people from one state
to another.
(a) No error (b) an home minister
(c) the migration (d) the laws pertaining
Q.475. Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. One of
them contains an error. The underlined parts are given as
options with some changes. Select the option that correctly
rectifies the error.
The film received critical acclaim for being a more innovative
movie of the year.
(a) Film receives (b) Acclaim at (c) In the year (d) An innovative
Q.476. I will definitely return your notes at Saturday evening.
(a) returned your notes on (b) returning your notes at
(c) No improvement required (d) return your notes by
Q.477. My sister resembles to my mother a lot in looks and in
temperament.
(a) is resembling to (b) resembles
(c) has resemblance to (d) No improvement
Q.478. Effective communication is a skill that can significant
enhance your personal and professional life.
(a) which can significant enhanced
(b) No improvement required
(c) which can significantly enhancing
(d) which can significantly enhance
Q.479. We have received no information so far to the main
island.
(a) No improvement required (b) so farther from
(c) so far from (d) such far from
Q.480. When he was falsely accused of embezzlement, he was
beside himself in anger.
(a) No improvement (b) he went beside himself
(c) he were beside himself (d) he was besides himself
Q.481. She is married with a rich businessman and has enough
money to splurge on luxuries.
(a) has marriage with (b) is married to
(c) has married with (d) No improvement
Q.482. Sherpas have prospered and come along the way from
being just porters to becoming mountaineers.
(a) are coming along (b) come all along
(c) No improvement (d) come a long way
Q.483. You have a lot of coconut trees in your village, do you ?
(a) have you? (b) don’t you?
(c) don’t they? (d) No improvement required
Q.484. By next summer, I will have completed my internship and
will have returned to school.
(a) No improvement required (b) have returned to school.
(c) will return to school. (d) returned to school.
Q.485. Tomorrow, they will be take a flight to their dream
vacation destination.
(a) will taking a flight (b) be taking a flight
(c) No improvement required (d) will be taking a flight
Q.486. As bombs keep falling on Gaza, hundreds of thousands
of children have been order to flee their homes.
(a) have been ordered to flee (b) have been ordered fleeing
(c) No improvement required (d) has been ordered to flee
Q.487. The pollution level ought to keep under control.
(a) No improvement required (b) ought to be keeping
(c) ought to be kept (d) ought to have kept
Q.488. This is the challenge task I have ever encountered.
(a) more challenging (b) most challenging
(c) challenging (d) much challenging
Q.489. Ashoka was not only a great warrior but also a very wiser
ruler.
(a) more wise (b) No correction required (c) wisest (d) wise
Q.490. Cinema provides the most universal entertainment.
(a) No correction required (b) a universal
(c) an universal (d) more universal
Q.491. He is taller and most handsome than his friend.
(a) very more (b) more (c) the more (d) the most
Q.492. Lots of kids (was visualised) crossing the road when the
bus arrived.
(a) have been seen (b) was seen (c) are seen (d) were seen
Q.493. The use of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides began
after the Green Revolution.
(a) A practice of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides
(b) The custom of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides
(c) Consumption of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides
Sentence Improvement
(d) The usage of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides
Q.494. Identify the sentence that correctly uses the indefinite
article.
(a) There are three cars parked outside: a Mercedes, an Jaguar
and an Fiat.
(b) There are three cars parked outside: an Mercedes, a Jaguar
and a Fiat.
(c) There are three cars parked outside: a Mercedes, a Jaguar
and a Fiat.
(d) There are three cars parked outside: a Mercedes, an Jaguar
and a Fiat.
Q.495. He is faster than smarter.
(a) more fast than smart (b) faster than being smart
(c) fast than smart (d) No substitution
Q.496. The Taj Mahal is one of the much popular seven wonders
of the world.
(a) much more (b) more (c) most (d) No substitution required
Q.497. She trusted her husband but he stabbed her in the neck
when he usurped her inheritance.
(a) snapped her in the neck (b) stabbed her in the back
(c) stabbed her with a fork (d) stabbed her prospects
Q.498. I like to read books, but my brother prefers to watching
movies.
(a) No substitution (b) to watch (c) in watching (d) on watching
Q.499. This case is serious. You need to look into this matter;
otherwise, the situation will get out of control soon.
(a) look after (b) No substitution (c) look up (d) look at
Q.500. The village Seoni is located 113 km away from the
capital city of MP, Bhopal.
(a) adjacent from city capital of MP, Bhopal
(b) proximate from capital of MP, Bhopal
(c) near from the city capital of MP, Bhopal
(d) far from the capital city of MP, Bhopal
Q.501. Kiran's teacher was doubtful on her success.
(a) doubtful beyond (b) doubtful of (c) doubtful in (d) doubtful off
Q.502. Harry is the one sitting on the corner.
(a) in (b) No substitution required (c) onto (d) upon
Q.503. The Board of Film Analysts vituperated the novice
Indonesian film-maker and cancelled its nomination for the
'Golden Globe Award'.
(a) dealt in a delicate and polite manner
(b) recognised and praised the talent of
(c) censured with harsh and abusive language
(d) lamented the untimely death of
Q.504. Naina is leaving and I am think to apply for her job.
(a) thinking about apply (b) thinking on applying
(c) thinking about applying (d) thinking in applying
Q.505. Malati has a difficult job, but she does it good.
(a) nice (b) best (c) better (d) well
Q.506. He travelled the whole world, but found piece at home.
(a) No substitution required (b) prize (c) peach (d) Peace
Q.507. Farmers have harvested wheat by using whatever labour
that was available to them.
(a) by using dispersed labour (b) by using amalgamated labour
(c) by using united labour (d) by using limited labour
Q.508. You can become confident to speak English within one
year.
(a) convinced to speaking (b) confident in speaking
(c) reassured of speaking (d) assured of speaking
Q.509. The unexpected turn beside the project put the company
in a big financial crisis.
(a) No substitution required (b) between the project
(c) until the project (d) in the project
Q.510. Politics and money go together in this country.
(a) go holding hands (b) go hand in hand
(c) go arm in arm (d) No substitution required
Q.511. The decision to engage in an armed conflict is tacit.
(a) regretted by everyone (b) ineffective completely
(c) incomprehensible for some (d) implied without being stated
Q.512. The cat climbed a tree and perched itself on a branch.
(a) perked (b) perished (c) No substitution required (d) parched
Q.513. Fifty rupees feels too much for such a pen.
(a) seems (b) looks (c) price (d) minds
Q.514. Despite of an injury, he won the match.
(a) In spite off (b) Despite
(c) In despite of (d) No substitution required
Q.515. Lily has dedicate her life towards becoming a doctor.
(a) No improvement required (b) is dedicate
(c) has dedicated (d) had dedicate
Q.516. Health insurance are important today since anyone can
face a medical emergency without warning.
(a) was important (b) is important
(c) has been important (d) will be important
Q.517. It was a quite afternoon, so Dan decided to take a nap.
(a) a quiet (b) an quite (c) No substitution required (d) an quiet
Q.518. People say different things at different times.
(a) say diverse things at different times
(b) says whimsical things at different times
(c) should say fanciful things at different times
(d) says delectable things at different times
Q.519. Andrew will playing basketball at the college tournament.
(a) are play the (b) are play (c) is playing (d) is played
Q.520. Selling, purchasing, and using an illegally copied product
is a criminal offence.
(a) an obsolete (b) a pirated (c) an outlawed (d) a crooked
Q.521. With all their little comforts destroyed, the survivors were
thrown still farther back into barbarism.
(a) still further back for barbarism
(b) still further back into barbarism
(c) No improvement required
(d) still a little farther into barbarism
Q.522. He said that I have finished my work.
(a) he had finished his work (b) he has finished his work
(c) I had finished my work (d) he was finished his work
Q.523. Many great people born in that small village.
Sentence Improvement
(a) was born (b) No substitution required (c) is born (d) were born
Q.524. It is true that learning English is essential for
professionals to survived the national and international
competitions.
(a) to be survive (b) having to survive
(c) No improvement required (d) for surviving
Q.525. Peer pressure is bound to effect most of us both
positively and negatively.
(a) to invoke most of us (b) to affect most of us
(c) to impede most of us (d) to prompt most of us
Q.526. The pandemic has challenged education systems to
ensure learning continuity, substantially increasing the demands
placed on teachers.
(a) education systems to ensuring learning
(b) education systems for ensure learning
(c) education systems in ensure learning
(d) No substitution required
Q.527. Mohan unknowingly altered salt instead of sugar to the
dessert making it taste terrible.
(a) added salt instead of sugar
(b) anguished salt instead of sugar
(c) amplified salt instead of sugar
(d) abridged salt instead of sugar
Q.528. No sooner did he finished his examination than he left
for his cricket training centre.
(a) no sooner did he finish (b) no sooner than he finished
(c) no sooner than he did finished (d) no sooner had he finish
Q.529. The Delhi administration is seriously worried about the
warning to civic health posed by the polluted waters of Yamuna.
(a) a peril to civic health (b) the notice to civic health
(c) the plague to civic health (d) the threat to civic health
Q.530. The food was too salty eat this morning.
(a) eating (b) ate (c) to ate (d) to eat
Q.531. You are always try with jump over the wall.
(a) trying in jumping (b) try to jump
(c) trying to jump (d) tried with jump
Q.532. They are sell their company's products to people.
(a) are sell the company (b) are selling their company's
(c) was sell the company's (d) is selling they company's
Q.533. Virtual reality is the creation of a virtual environment
presented to our senses in such a way that we experience it as if
we were really there.
(a) presenting to our senses (b) presenting in our senses
(c) presents to our senses (d) No substitution required
Q.534. Larger emissions of greenhouse gases lead to higher
concentrations in the atmosphere.
(a) leaded to higher concentrations
(b) have lead to higher concentrations
(c) is lead to higher concentrations
(d) No substitution required
Q.535. No sooner had the sun risen over the horizon when the
birds began to chirp and the squirrels started to scamper around
the park.
(a) when the birds begin (b) than birds begin
(c) when birds began (d) than the birds began
Q.536. I considered Geography as an easier subject.
(a) the easy (b) the easier (c) an easiest (d) an easy
Q.537. Rashmi works at the hospital, don't she?
(a) does she? (b) has she? (c) doesn't she? (d) do she?
Q.538. Select the word segment which substitutes the bracketed
word correctly and completes the sentence meaningfully.
I (am here) since 1981.
(a) have been here (b) had been here
(c) was here (d) has have here
Q.539. Teenage is that phase of life when you are proposed to
the world outside.
(a) you are exposed to (b) you are excited with
(c) one are proposed to (d) you are interrupted to
Q.540. Very early in the morning, at the beginning of January,
Opu was lying in bed waiting for the sun having rose.
(a) waited for the sun rising (b) waited for the sun having rose
(c) No improvement required (d) waiting for the sun to rise
Q.541. Newton, after seeing the apple falling from a tree, began
to wonder whether if it moved towards the earth and not
upwards towards the sky.
(a) No improvement required (b) began to wondering if
(c) began his wondering how (d) began to wonder why
Q.542. This film is a non-stop riot that many cite as one of the
funny films of all time.
(a) no rectification needed (b) funniest
(c) more funny (d) funnier
Q.543. If I hand her a flower and say, "Give it to mamma," she
take it to her mother.
(a) was taking it (b) takes it (c) had took it (d) had taken it
Q.544. The new chairman of the company announced attracted
bonus for the employees on the occasion of the new year.
(a) No improvement required
(b) announced an attractive bonus for the employees
(c) announcing attracted bonus for the employees
(d) announced attracting bonus for the employees
Q.545. Rishi asked Karan will he get a new football for him ?
(a) would he get a new football for him?
(b) if he would get a new football for him.
(c) if would he get a new football for him?
(d) if he will get a new football for him?
Q.546. If you need any help tomorrow, let him knows.
(a) let me know (b) let us known
(c) let him known (d) let them knew
Q.547. Helena loves to dig and played in the dirt like any other
child.
(a) playing on dirt (b) playing with in dirt
(c) plays of dirt (d) play in the dirt
Q.548. The development of skills can contribute to structural
transformation and economic growth in enhance employability
and labour productivity and helping countries to become more
competitive.
(a) about enhancing employability (b) by enhanced employability
(c) by enhancing employability (d) for enhanced employability
Sentence Improvement
Q.549. I used a variety of sources to find the more cheap flight.
(a) no rectification needed (b) cheaper (c) cheapest (d) cheap
Q.550. His claim to be the smartly kid in the school was a bit
hyperbole !
(a) no rectification needed (b) smartest (c) smarter (d) smart
Q.551. The rise in temperature is playing havoc with India's
rainfall which is pertinent for India's agriculture sector.
(a) rainfall who is pertinent (b) rainfall which is significant
(c) rainfall which is decant (d) rainfall which was mendicant
Q.552. Rahul's sister says that my brother is the best dancer in
the city.
(a) her brother is the best dancer in the city
(b) my brother was the best dancer in the city
(c) her brother was the best dancer in the city
(d) his brother was the best dancer in the city
Q.553. A wonder in the plant kingdom, the Great Banyan Tree of
the AJC Bose Botanical Garden at Shibpur in Howrah, occupies a
unique position in the world records.
(a) occupying a unique position in
(b) occupies an unique position in
(c) No improvement required
(d) being occupied a unique position of
Q.554. It has raining very hard and he has a very large umbrella
to keep off the rain-drops.
(a) shall rain (b) is raining (c) will be rainy (d) rained
Q.555. Adyasha would have been looked gorgeous in ethnic
apparel.
(a) was looked (b) would have looked
(c) had looking (d) would be looked
Q.556. In today’s world, technology must be used for feed the
changing forces in society.
(a) must had been used to feed (b) must have been used to feed
(c) must used to feed (d) must be used to feed
Q.557. She can draw very well and just as creative.
(a) as creativer (b) as creatively (c) creative than (d) creative
Q.558. I have been in Chennai since a week, but I am planning to
return now.
(a) for (b) from (c) in (d) No substitution required
Sol.468.(b) affects the character
The given sentence needs a verb, not the noun ‘effects’ for the
subject ‘the plot of the story’. ‘The plot of the story’ is a singular
subject that will take ‘affects’ as a singular verb. Hence, ‘affects
the character’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.469.(b) despite decades of
‘Despite’ does not take ‘of’. Therefore, ‘of’ will be removed.
Hence, ‘despite decades of’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.470.(b) had left before I reached
If two actions took place in the past then the 1st action must be
in the Past perfect tense (Had + V 3) and the 2nd action must be
in the Simple Past tense(V 2). In the given sentence, ‘train leaving’
is the first action, so it will be written in past perfect tense.
Hence, ‘had left(V 3) before I reached(V 2)’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.471.(a) whom she later married
‘Whom’ is a relative pronoun used for the object in a relative
clause. In the underlined part, ‘whom’ has been used for the
person she married. Hence, ‘whom she later married’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.472.(c) call around
The phrasal verb ‘call around’ means to phone different people
or places. The given sentence states that I decided to make
phone calls to various bookstores in the area to see if any of
them had the book I needed. Hence, ‘call around’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.473.(d) This lesser known heritage building is as much
beautiful as the Red Fort.
‘So…as’ is used with ‘not’ to show that two things are not equal.
‘As…as’ or ‘As much… as’ is used to show that two things are
equal in certain respects. According to option (d), the lesser
known building and the Red fort are equally beautiful. Hence,
option (d) has the correct sentence.
Sol.474.(d) the laws pertaining
Article ‘a’ must be replaced with ‘the’. The ‘laws’ mentioned in
the given sentence are specific and we generally use the definite
article ‘the’ before any specific or particular noun. Hence, ‘the
laws pertaining’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.475.(d) An innovative
‘More’ must be removed as there is no comparison in this
sentence. Article ‘a’ must be replaced with article ‘an’ as we use
‘an’ before words starting with a vowel sound (an apple, an
umbrella, an MBA). Hence, ‘an innovative’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.476.(d) return your notes by
Preposition ‘by’ is used to indicate a deadline or a specific time
before which the action will be completed. The given sentence
states that the notes will be returned by evening. Hence, ‘return
your notes by’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.477.(b) resembles
The verb ‘resembles’ does not take the preposition ‘to’ after it.
Hence, ‘resembles’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.478.(d) which can significantly enhance
The given sentence needs an adverb(significantly) to modify the
verb (enhance) and not an adjective (significant). Hence, ‘which
can significantly enhance’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.479.(c) so far from
‘From’ is used with ‘receive’ to indicate the source destination or
sender. In the given sentence, ‘the main island’ is the source
destination from which no information has been received so far.
Hence, ‘so far from’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.480.(a) No improvement
‘Be beside oneself’ is a phrase which means to be in an
extremely emotional state. The given sentence states that the
person was in an extreme state of anger. Hence, option (a) is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.481.(b) is married to
‘To’ is used after the verb ‘married’ in the passive voice. Hence,
'is married to' is the most appropriate answer.
Sentence Improvement
Sol.482.(d) come a long way
The phrase ‘come a long way’ means to make significant
progress or improvement. The given sentence states that
Sherpas have prospered and made significant progress from
being just porters to becoming mountaineers. Hence, ‘come a
long way’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.483.(b) don’t you?
According to the “Question Tag rule”, if the statement is positive,
the question tag will be negative & Vice-versa. However, the
sentence and the question tag must be in the same tense.
Similarly, the given sentence is positive so the question tag will
be negative(don’t). Hence, ‘don’t you?’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.484.(d) returned to school
If two or more verbs are of the same tense then the helping verb
is written only once before the first verb. In the given sentence,
‘will have’ is a helping verb of future perfect tense and has been
used for both verbs (‘completed’ and ‘returned’). Hence, ‘returned
to school’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.485.(d) will be taking a flight
‘Will be / shall be + V ’ is the correct grammatical structure of
ing
Future continuous tense. Hence, ‘will be taking (V ) a flight’ is
ing
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.486.(a) have been ordered to flee
‘Subject + has/have + been + V 3’ is the correct grammatical
structure for passive voice of Present perfect tense. ‘Ordered’ is
the correct third form of ‘order’. Hence, ‘have been ordered(V 3) to
flee’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.487.(c) ought to be kept under
Passive voice is used when the action is performed upon the
subject, not by the subject. ‘Ought to + be + V ’ is the correct
3
passive form. Hence, ‘ought to be kept(V ) under’ is the most
3
appropriate answer.
Sol.488.(b) most challenging
Definite article ‘the’ is used for a specific or particular thing and
before a superlative degree adjective. ‘Most challenging’ is the
correct superlative degree of ‘challenging’. Hence, ‘most
challenging’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.489.(d) wise
‘Very’ is a positive adverb and takes a positive degree adjective
after it. Hence, ‘wise’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.490.(b) a universal
There are some adjectives that can not be written in
comparative or superlative degree. These adjectives are called
absolute or non-gradable adjectives. Some examples are
universal, absolute, complete, perfect, empty, full, etc. Hence, ‘a
universal’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.491.(b) more
If two or more adjectives are joined with a conjunction, these
adjectives are written in the same degree. In the given sentence,
‘and’ joins two adjectives, out of which one is comparative
degree(taller). Therefore, the second adjective will also be
written in comparative degree. ‘More handsome’ is the correct
comparative degree of ‘handsome’. Hence, ‘more’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.492.(d) were seen
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb and a plural subject always
takes a plural verb. In the given sentence, ‘lots of kids’ is a plural
subject that will take ‘were’ as a plural verb. Hence, ‘were seen’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.493.(d) The usage of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides
‘Use’ means the act of utilizing something for a specific purpose
while ‘Usage’ means the customary or habitual manner in which
something is utilized. Hence, ‘The usage of chemicals,
insecticides and pesticides’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.494.(c) There are three cars parked outside: a Mercedes, a
Jaguar and a Fiat.(Correct)
(a) There are three cars parked outside: a Mercedes, an Jaguar
and an Fiat.(Incorrect Article)
(b) There are three cars parked outside: an Mercedes, a Jaguar
and a Fiat.(Incorrect Article)
(d) There are three cars parked outside: a Mercedes, an Jaguar
and a Fiat.(Incorrect Article)
Sol.495.(a) more fast than smart
When there is a comparison between two qualities of a single
person or thing, we do not use normal comparative degree. E.g.-
more smart than beautiful(not ‘smarter than beautiful’). Similarly,
the given sentence compares two qualities, ‘fast’ and ‘smart’.
Hence, ‘more fast and smart’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.496.(c) most
“One of the + Superlative degree adjective + Plural Subject” is
grammatically the correct structure. For example, one of the
best men, one of the greatest kings, one of the worst phones,
etc. Hence, ‘most’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.497.(b) stabbed her in the back
‘Stabbed her in the back’ is the correct idiom that means to be
unfaithful or disloyal to. The given sentence states that she
trusted her husband but he was unfaithful to her when he
usurped her inheritance. Hence, ‘stabbed her in the back’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.498.(b) to watch
We generally use an infinitive(V 1) with the preposition ‘to’. Hence,
‘to watch’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.499.(b) No substitution.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.500.(d) far from the capital city of MP, Bhopal
‘Far’ means situated at a distance or away from a place. Hence,
‘far from the capital city of MP, Bhopal’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.501.(b) doubtful of
‘Of’ is a fixed preposition used after the word ‘doubtful’. Hence,
‘doubtful of’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.502.(a) in
‘In’ is used to indicate the location or position of an object or a
person. Similarly, in the given sentence, ‘corner’ is the position of
Harry. Hence, ‘in’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.503.(c) Vituperated - censured with harsh and abusive
language.
Sol.504.(c) thinking about applying
‘Am’ is a helping verb of Present Continuous Tense and
Sentence Improvement
‘is/am/are + V ing ’ is the correct grammatical structure. ‘About’ is
used to introduce the topic or subject of discussion or
consideration. Also, we always use a gerund (V ing ) after a
preposition. Hence, ‘thinking(V ing ) about applying(V ing )’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.505.(d) well
The given sentence needs an adverb(well) to modify the
meaning of the verb ‘does’, not an adjective(good). Hence, ‘well’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.506.(d) peace
‘Piece’ means a portion of an object or a material while ‘peace’
means a state of being calm and free from any kind of worry or
disturbance.The word ‘peace’ makes the sentence meaningful.
Hence, ‘peace’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.507.(d) by using limited labour
‘Limited’ means a small quantity or number of something. The
given sentence states that farmers have harvested their wheat
by using a small number of labourers. Hence, ‘by using limited
labour’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.508.(b) confident in speaking
‘In’ is used after the word ‘confident’ to show the specific area or
subject in which someone is confident. Hence, ‘confident in
speaking’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.509.(d) in the project
‘In’ is used to indicate involvement while ‘beside’ is used to show
that two things are close to each other. The given passage talks
about the impact of unexpected change in the project. Hence,
‘in the project’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.510.(b) Go hand in hand - go together.
Sol.511.(d) Tacit - implied without being stated.
Sol.512.(c) No substitution required
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.513.(a) seems
‘Feels’ is used for the sense of touch or emotion and ‘seems’ is
used to show what something appears to be. The word ‘seems’
makes the sentence meaningful. Hence, ‘seems’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.514.(b) Despite
‘Despite’ means in spite of and it doesn't take any preposition
with it. Hence, ‘Despite’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.515.(c) has dedicated
“Has/Have/Had + V (third form of the verb)” is the correct
3
grammatical structure. However, the third form of ‘dedicate’ is
‘dedicated’. Hence, ‘has dedicated(V )’ is the most appropriate
3
answer.
Sol.516.(b) is important
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb. Similarly, ‘Health insurance’
is a singular subject that will take ‘is’ as a singular verb. Hence,
‘is important’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.517.(a) a quiet
‘Quite’ is used to emphasize the degree or extent of something
and ‘quiet’ describes something that makes no noise. Similarly,
in the given sentence, it is stated that it was a quiet afternoon.
Hence, ‘a quiet’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.518.(a) say diverse things at different times
‘Different’ is used to indicate that two or more things are not the
same or not alike in some way. whereas ‘diverse’ means a wide
range of differences within a group or a set of things. Hence,
‘say diverse things at different times’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.519.(c) is playing
‘Is/am/are + V ’ is the correct grammatical structure for
ing
Present Continuous Tense. ‘Andrew’ is a singular subject that
will take ‘is’ as a singular verb. Hence, ‘is playing(V ing)’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.520.(b) a Pirated - illegally copied.
Sol.521.(b) still further back into barbarism
‘Farther’ is used to indicate the physical distance while ‘further’
is used to indicate the figurative/metaphorical distance. Hence,
‘still further back into barbarism’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.522.(a) he had finished his work.
The given sentence is an example of indirect speech as the
conjunction 'that' has been used after the verb 'said'. As per the
rules of Indirect speech, the pronouns 'I' and ‘My’ change into
'He' and ‘His’ and ‘Present perfect (have + V ) changes to past
3
perfect (had + V ). Hence, 'he had finished his homework' is the
3
most appropriate answer.
Sol.523.(d) were born
We generally use the passive voice when the subject is unknown
or unimportant. According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”,
a plural subject always takes a plural verb. Similarly, ‘people’ is a
plural subject that will take ‘were’ as a plural verb. Hence, ‘were
born’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.524.(d) for surviving
‘For’ is used to indicate the purpose or reason of something.
Similarly, the given sentence states the purpose of learning
English. We generally use gerund(V ) after a preposition(for).
ing
Hence, ‘for surviving(V )’ is the most appropriate answer.
ing
Sol.525.(b) to affect most of us
We generally use the first form of the verb(V ) after the
1
preposition ‘to’. ‘Affect’ is the verb form of the noun ‘effect’.
Hence, ‘to affect(V ) most of us’ is the most appropriate answer.
1
Sol.526.(d) No substitution required.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.527.(a) added salt instead of sugar
‘Alter’ means to change the form of something & ‘add’ means to
put in an additional element or ingredient. The word ‘added’ is a
more precise and clear choice in this sentence. Hence, ‘added
salt instead of sugar’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.528.(a) no sooner did he finish
“Do/does/did + V 1 “ is the correct grammatical structure. Hence,
‘no sooner did he finish’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.529.(d) the threat to civic health
The phrase ‘the threat to civic health’ means the potential danger
or risk to the well-being and overall health of a city. Hence, ‘the
threat to civic health’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.530.(d) to eat
Sentence Improvement
‘Too + adjective + to + V 1 ’ is the correct grammatical structure.
Hence, ‘to eat(V 1 )’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.531.(c) trying to jump
The given sentence is an example of Present Continuous
Tense(Plural Sub. + are + V ing). We generally use the preposition
‘to’ with the verb ‘try’ for an activity. Hence, ‘trying(V ing) to jump’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.532.(b) are selling their company's
We use ‘V-ing’ with the helping verb ‘is/am/are’ in the Present
Continuous Tense. Hence, “are selling(V-ing) their company’s” is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.533.(d) No substitution required.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.534.(d) No substitution required.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.535.(d) than the birds began
‘No sooner….than’ is a fixed conjunction pair. Hence, ‘than the
birds began’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.536.(d) an easy
‘An easier’ must be replaced with ‘an easy.’ We need to use a
positive degree of adjective as there is no comparison of
‘geography’ with another subject in the given sentence. Hence,
‘an easy’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.537.(c) doesn't she?
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb and a plural subject always
takes a plural verb. In the given sentence, ‘she’ is a singular
pronoun that will take ‘does’ as a singular verb. Hence, ‘doesn’t
she’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.538.(a) have been here
We generally use Perfect Tense or Perfect Continuous Tense
when the time period(for) or the starting point(since) of an
action is given in a sentence. 'Be' is a stative verb and stative
verbs can not be used in continuous tense. Therefore, Present
Perfect Tense(has/have + V ) will be used. Hence, 'have been(V )
3 3
here' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.539.(a) you are exposed to
‘Proposed’ means to suggest or put forward an idea while
‘exposed’ means to be introduced to something new or
unfamiliar. The given sentence states during teenage years,
individuals are introduced to the world. Hence, ‘exposed’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.540.(d) waiting for the sun to rise
We generally use the infinitive form of the verb “to + V 1 ” to
combine two actions. Similarly, in the given sentence, the two
actions are ‘waiting’ and ‘rising’. Hence, ‘waiting for the sun to
rise’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.541.(d) began to wonder why
The phrase 'began to wonder why' means started thinking about
the reason behind the happening of some event. The given
sentence states that Newton started thinking about the reason
for the fall of the apple towards the Earth, not towards the sky.
Hence, 'began to wonder why' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.542.(b) funniest
“One of the + Superlative degree adjective (best, worst, etc) +
Plural Noun” is grammatically the correct structure. For example,
one of the best men, one of the greatest kings, one of the worst
phones, etc. Hence, ‘funniest’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.543.(b) takes it
According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a singular
subject always takes a singular verb. Similarly, ‘she’ is a singular
pronoun that will take ‘takes’ as a singular verb. Hence, ‘takes it’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.544.(b) announced an attractive bonus for the employees
‘Attracted’ must be replaced with the adjective ‘attractive’ as we
need to use an adjective to qualify the noun ‘bonus.’ Hence,
‘announced an attractive bonus for the employees’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.545.(b) if he would get a new football for him.
In indirect speech, we generally use ‘if’ while changing the
interrogative sentence and ‘will’ is changed into ‘would’. Also, the
interrogative sentence is changed into an assertive sentence.
Hence, ‘if he would get a new football for him’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.546.(a) let me know
‘Let + objective case pronoun(me/him/us) + V 1’ is the correct
grammatical structure. Hence, ‘let me know(V 1)’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.547.(d) play in the dirt
According to the ‘Rule of Parallelism’, two or more verbs must be
in the same form if they are connected with one another.
Similarly, in the given sentence, ‘and’ connects two verbs 'dig(V 1)’
and ‘played’. Therefore, ‘play(V 1)’ must be used in place of
‘played’. Hence, ‘play in the dirt’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.548.(c) by enhancing employability
‘By’ is a preposition that indicates the means or method by
which something is done. A preposition is always followed by a
gerund(V 1-ing). Hence, ‘by enhancing employability’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.549.(c) cheapest
We generally use article ‘the’ with a superlative degree and the
correct superlative degree of ‘cheap’ is ‘cheapest’. Hence,
‘cheapest’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.550.(b) smartest
We generally use a superlative degree adjective with the definite
article ‘the’. The correct superlative adjective of ‘smartly’ is
‘smartest’. Hence, ‘smartest’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.551.(b) rainfall which is significant
‘Significant’ means important. The given sentence states that
the rise in temperature is playing havoc with India’s rainfall which
is significant for India’s agricultural sector. Hence, ‘rainfall which
is significant’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.552.(a) her brother is the best dancer in the city
The main subject in the sentence is ‘Rahul’s sister’ which is
feminine gender. ‘Her’ is used for feminine gender. Hence, ‘her
brother is the best dancer in the city’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.553.(c) No improvement required.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.554.(b) is raining
Sentence Improvement
Time period is not given in the sentence, so we can not use
Present Perfect Continuous Tense. Rather, we will use Present
Continuous Tense(Singular Sub. + is + V ing ) in the given
sentence. Hence, 'is raining' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.555.(b) would have looked
The given sentence is an example of active voice and the correct
grammatical structure is ‘would have + V ’. Hence, ‘would have
3
looked(V )’ is the most appropriate answer.
3
Sol.556.(d) must be used to feed
We generally use an infinitive(V 1 ) with the preposition ‘to’. Hence,
‘must be used to feed(V 1 )’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.557.(b) as creatively
We use ‘and’, ‘or’ and ‘but’ to connect two parts of sentences
which are similar in grammatical status. Similarly, in the given
sentence, 'and' connects the adverb 'well' with another adverb
'creatively'. Hence, 'as creatively' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.558.(a) for
“For” is used for a fixed period of time(countable) like 2 years/3
months/4 days/8 hours and for an activity that happened in a
recent time. Similarly, in the given sentence, we can count ‘a
week’(one). Hence, ‘for a week’ is the most appropriate answer.
eduquity-based pattern (ebp)
Questions (559 to 649)
Q.559. Peter was brought in the penalty area.
(a) was brought down of the (b) was brought of the
(c) was brought on the (d) was brought down in the
Q.560. Mahesh's attitude annoyed me and I blew into.
(a) annoyed me and I blew over
(b) annoyed me and I blew off
(c) annoyed me and I blew down of
(d) annoyed me and I blew up
Q.561. I don't think he can dance as wellest Elena.
(a) weller than (b) wellest (c) as well as (d) well than
Q.562. Since the storm knocked in the power, we've been using
candles to light our home.
(a) No substitution required
(b) the storm knocked out the power
(c) the storm knocked over the power
(d) the storm knocked away the power
Q.563. If we had moved to Italy when I was a child, I will had an
Italian accent.
(a) I will be have (b) I would has
(c) I would have had (d) I am having
Q.564. Lewis can handle many of the European languages with
its dialectical varieties fluently
(a) on its dialectical varieties (b) with their dialectical varieties
(c) with a dialectical varieties (d) with they dialectical varieties
Q.565. Despite having a broken leg, Sarah managed to finish the
marathon on record time.
(a) finish the marathon in record time
(b) finish a marathon on record time
(c) finish the marathon to record time
(d) finish the marathon at record time
Q.566. It is nothing but pride.
(a) nothing ever (b) nothing else
(c) nothing seldom (d) nothing so
Q.567. Sujata has not and can never in the good books of her
principal as she lacks honesty.
(a) has not been and can never be
(b) has not been and can never been
(c) has not be and can never be
(d) has not be and can never been
Q.568. I have been living in this country since last several years
but have never experienced any discrimination.
(a) for the last several years (b) in the last several years
(c) by the last several years (d) from the last several years
Q.569. He got appreciation from every people in a country and
abroad.
(a) from one and all in the country and abroad
(b) from one or all in a country and abroad
(c) from one and all from a country and abroad
(d) from one and all in country and abroad
Q.570. The mermaid murmured that it had been very difficult for
her to live far from human civilisation.
(a) it had (b) No correction required
(c) this have been (d) this had been
Q.571. Although he was exhausted from working all day, John
continues to study for his upcoming exam.
(a) will continue to study for his upcoming exam
(b) has been studying for his upcoming exam
(c) continued to study for his upcoming exam
(d) continues studying for his upcoming exam
Q.572. One cannot exactly predict the way she behaves in public
gatherings
(a) deliberate (b) precipitate (c) prefigure (d) proliferate
Q.573. The most important fruit in Kinnaur is apricot. It is
possible to get it at everyplace in huge amount.
(a) found for a huge amount everywhere
(b) found everywhere in a huge amount
(c) found everywhere with a huge amount
(d) find everywhere in a huge amount
Q.574. Can you please make sure that all the guest are gathered
on the stage before the performance begins?
(a) guest is gathered on (b) guests are gathered in
(c) guests are gathered by (d) guests is gathered by
Q.575. She makes sure that all the newly realised books are
available in her personal library.
(a) the newly released books (b) the newly regaled books
(c) the newly relieved books (d) the newly reverberated books
Q.576. The fall of Ranjith for the petty material benefit was really
ignominious.
(a) unfaltering (b) amusing (c) reprehensible (d) ignorable
Q.577. The people who live here have had the same kind of
lifestyle until hundreds of years.
(a) through hundreds of year (b) for hundreds of years
(c) although hundreds of years (d) since hundreds of year
Q.578. All colleagues of Rohit except Joseph have
commemorated the elective courses they are planning to offer.
Sentence Improvement
(a) have considered the elective courses
(b) have castigated the elective courses
(c) have constipated the elective courses
(d) have commiserated the elective courses
Q.579. As the orchestra began to play, the audience was
transported to another world, enthralled by the psychological
effects of the music and the skill of the musicians, who
performed each note with precision and passion.
(a) influenced by the overall scenario
(b) impacted by feelings
(c) swept away by the emotive power
(d) taken in by the effect on emotions
Q.580. I need to put out my clothes before I leave for work this
morning otherwise, I will be restless when I return.
(a) need for put out (b) need to put in
(c) need to put off (d) need to put away
Q.581. As the storm raged outside, the children huddled
together under blankets, listening to the sound of the rain hitting
the windows hard and hoping that the power wouldn't go out.
(a) climbing up to the windows (b) setting off the windows
(c) pounding against the windows (d) beating off the windows
Q.582. Pooja could feel the anger building off inside her.
(a) building upon inside her (b) building of inside her
(c) building on inside her (d) building up inside her
Q.583. The health-care system is in transition at those moment.
(a) at that moments (b) at the moment
(c) at a moments (d) at these moment
Q.584. The fields are full of crops existing in large quantities.
(a) that are sufficient (b) that are limited
(c) that are customized (d) that are abundant
Q.585. She will accept his love proposal if he will express
impressively.
(a) if he has been pressed (b) if he had express
(c) if he expresses (d) if he expressed
Q.586. Could you please tell me which movie you would like to
watch tonight ?
(a) you may wish to scroll (b) you have desire to see
(c) you are wishing to watch (d) are you interested in watching
Q.587. In according to his advice I took this medicine.
(a) accordance with (b) accordingly
(c) accordance to (d) accord with
Q.588. I am trying to study, if it is impossible with all this noise.
(a) that it is impossible (b) but it is impossible
(c) while it is impossible (d) unless it is impossible
Q.589. Can you please tell me where is the city park.
(a) where the city park is? (b) where are city's park?
(c) city park where? (d) where was the city park?
Q.590. This hill is a nice place to meditate because one can
enjoy solitude.
(a) is a nice place to be meditation
(b) is an excellent place to meditates
(c) No correction required.
(d) is a nasty place to meditate
Q.591. No less than eight pedestrians were killed in the
accident.
(a) No few than (b) None less than
(c) No fewer than (d) No lesser than
Q.592. How do you think the internet has influenced how we
utilise news and media?
(a) has managed the patterns we ingest
(b) has revoked the way we interact
(c) has maintained how we receive
(d) has impacted the way we consume
Q.593. Meenakshi called out for the neighbourhood to get
support for her campaign.
(a) called by the neighbourhood
(b) called of the neighbourhood
(c) called in the neighbourhood
(d) called around the neighbourhood
Q.594. Despite facing numerous obstacles and setbacks, the
determined entrepreneur refused to give up on her dream of
creating a successful startup that would transform the sector.
(a) that will improvise the sector
(b) that shall redesign the industry
(c) that could socialise the sector
(d) that would revolutionise the industry
Q.595. Amal brightened of when they said he could go with
them.
(a) brightened in when they (b) brightened on when they
(c) brightened upon when they (d) brightened up when they
Q.596. The company is planning to cut back few employees.
(a) reduce some (b) lay off some
(c) refuse some (d) lay down some
Q.597. From a recent research, evident is it that a lot more
women have been opting for professional courses.
(a) it is evident that more a lot women
(b) it is evidently that a lot more women
(c) it is evident that a lot more women
(d) it is evidence that a lot more women
Q.598. She is the least reliablest person of all.
(a) leastest reliable (b) less reliable
(c) least reliable (d) lesser reliable
Q.599. The young artist spent countless hours perfecting her
craft, trying with various methods and mediums, and honing her
creative vision until she had produced a stunning collection of
works that showcased her unique talent and perspective.
(a) exploring with different factors
(b) experimenting with different techniques
(c) merging with different variations
(d) researching with different types
Q.600. The students were restored to complete the assignment
by Friday.
(a) declared (b) expected
(c) designed (d) No substitution required
Q.601. The GDP of the country has growth rapidly since
independence.
(a) had been grow rapidly (b) has grown rapidly
(c) have grown been rapidly (d) had grow rapidly
Q.602. She had an ability to persuade others.
(a) halt (b) suppress (c) outrage (d) impress
Sentence Improvement
Q.603. We must remember that what we teach our children is
what we inculcate in them.
(a) endanger (b) inspire (c) instil (d) import
Q.604. The fact that God created man in his personal view by
giving him an intellectual spirit elevates him above the beasts of
the field.
(a) own glory (b) own capacity (c) own image (d) own idea
Q.605. The frog adopts itself to live both in water and on land.
(a) frog adepts itself (b) frog alters itself
(c) No substitution (d) frog adapts itself
Q.606. Natwar was a fraudster who always tried to fooling
others.
(a) betraying (b) deceive (c) cheating (d) revealing
Q.607. The Indian independence movement sought to establish
the conceptions of freedom and social welfare as the goals of
an independent Indian state, resulting in Fundamental Rights
and Directive Principles.
(a) procedures of free mind (b) concepts of liberty
(c) symbols of victory (d) methods to sympathise
Q.608. Carolina opened a savings account to save money for
later.
(a) for a cold day (b) for a rainy day
(c) for a sunny day (d) for a hot day
Q.609. The management is not beware of this fact.
(a) aware of (b) awaking to (c) beware to (d) watchful with
Q.610. Last week's rain ravaged the whole city.
(a) reaffirmed (b) rescinded (c) ruined (d) retracted
Q.611. National development is defined as an improvement in
people's daily arrangements, the provision of fundamental
necessities to citizens such as food, education, social services,
medical help, and so on, as well as an increase in per capita
income.
(a) diving techniques (b) dining categories
(c) existing calamities (d) living conditions
Q.612. Please ask the dog to get of my couch.
(a) get of mine (b) get off my (c) get off mine (d) No substitution
Q.613. The mob drove on the rampage and looted several shops
in the locality.
(a) played on the rampage (b) went on the rampage
(c) ran on the rampage (d) strolled on the rampage
Q.614. I don’t wear the sunglasses at the moment.
(a) I didn’t wear (b) I wore (c) I was wearing (d) I’m not wearing
Q.615. Her hopes for building her own house were beaten when
she lost her jewellery box.
(a) house were defeated when (b) house were frustrated when
(c) house were relieved when (d) house were dashed when
Q.616. Irene went to office every single day by walk.
(a) every day single by walk (b) every single day walk
(c) every single day on foot (d) every single day on walk
Q.617. In times of difficulty, she preys for an oracle to guide her.
(a) pray (b) praise (c) price (d) prays
Q.618. In today's digital age, information is widely available to
everyone by many means of media such as television,
newspapers, films, and social media.
(a) with quite enough of mechanisms (b) through any strategies
(c) via various forms (d) among many techniques
Q.619. Abhijeet feels extremely tired after working all day long.
(a) depressed (b) exhausted (c) sleepy (d) bare
Q.620. Disability was viewed as God's retribution for
wickedness in the past.
(a) revenge for legal works (b) punishment for wrongdoing
(c) payback for doing help (d) fine for misbehaviour
Q.621. Many noticeable people were present at the function.
(a) No substitution (b) notworthy (c) celebrity (d) notable
Q.622. Brian remained silent during the board meeting, though
Rahul was unaware that he had an ace up his sheath the entire
time.
(a) an ace up his sleeve (b) an ace up his fortune
(c) an ace up his teeth (d) an ace up his head
Q.623. Bajrang is in extreme pain in his teeth.
(a) Ache (b) Agony (c) Hurt (d) Sting
Q.624. The players distributed the reward between themselves.
(a) between them (b) among themselves
(c) between their selves (d) amongst their self
Q.625. Greenhouse gases trapped beside Earth's atmosphere
cause global warming.
(a) trapped inside (b) No substitution
(c) trapped outside (d) trapped beyond
Q.626. Arthur has some strange ideas, but on this occasion, I
am inclined to agree with him.
(a) tended (b) conflicted (c) refused (d) conspired
Q.627. During the wedding ceremony, the bride seemed even
quieter and more diffident than usual.
(a) Showing lack of interest
(b) Bold in others' company
(c) Giving a false or misleading impression
(d) Shy due to lack of confidence.
Q.628. Parents should tell their children to exercise great care
when crossed busy roads
(a) has crossed (b) crossing (c) cross (d) has been crossing
Q.629. This compartment is reserved for military person.
(a) military personal (b) military personality
(c) military members (d) military personnel
Q.630. Abraham Lincoln has been the sixteenth president of the
United States and save the Union at the American Civil war.
(a) No substitution (b) save the Union alongside
(c) saved the Union during (d) saved the Union on
Q.631. My friend Meera and her mother is visiting me this
weekend.
(a) have visiting (b) am visiting (c) was visiting (d) are visiting
Q.632. The commanders entered by force into terrorists' camp.
(a) broke down (b) broke with (c) broke into (d) broke off
Q.633. The young boy displayed an aptitude on scientific
research.
(a) aptitude for (b) aptitude at (c) aptitude by (d) aptitude in
Sentence Improvement
Q.634. He had given me that book in 1999.
(a) did given me (b) was given me (c) gives me (d) gave me
Q.635. There is a charm on the midnight air which all cannot
experience.
(a) over the midnight air (b) around the midnight air
(c) in the midnight air (d) under the midnight air
Q.636. Being a practiced liar, it was totally normal for him to
utter a complete and blatant lie.
(a) blasphemy (b) whooper (c) falsehood (d) perjury
Q.637. Pintu has been advised to reduce smoking by his family
doctor.
(a) lower down (b) up down (c) less down (d) cut down
Q.638. The heavy medications and strong drugs at the
sanatorium will surely turn a patient completely lifeless and
unresponsive.
(a) tombic (b) cadaverous (c) zonic (d) wasted
Q.639. I worked hard so that I might success.
(a) that I may success (b) that I might successful
(c) that I might succeed (d) that I might successor
Q.640. The stranger stood quietly for few moments.
(a) For the few moments (b) No improvement required
(c) For moments (d) For a few moments
Q.641. He did not stop until it was remarked that he was
speaking at length about trivial things.
(a) twittering (b) writing (c) rambling (d) littering
Q.642. The question was raised for discussion before the
members during the assembly session.
(a) came up (b) came off (c) came round (d) came out
Q.643. The rebels laid up their arms
(a) laid down (b) laid out (c) laid on (d) laid by
Q.644. She has gained a lot of fame but still she is very realistic
and sensible.
(a) down to earth (b) down to it
(c) down to bottom (d) down to drown
Q.645. He was advised for walking alone in the neighbourhood.
(a) No substitution (b) advised about
(c) advised against (d) advised on
Q.646. The volunteers of the organisation refused point blank of
do what was requested.
(a) refused point blank to do
(b) refused point blank doing
(c) refused point blankedly to do
(d) refused in point blank of doing
Q.647. Students were asked to write the historical events in the
order of their occurrence.
(a) aesthetic order (b) historic order
(c) chronological order (d) diachronic order
Q.648. Raju did very well in the exam, he must study well.
(a) he may study well (b) he should have studied well
(c) he must have studied well (d) No substitution required
Q.649. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select "no substitution required".
The unit twitched like a bird (preening it's plumage and becomes
motionless).
(a) preening its plumage and became motionless
(b) No substitution required
(c) preening it's plumage while becoming motionless
(d) to preen it's plumage and becomes motionless
Sol.559.(d) was brought down in the
The phrasal verb ‘bring down’ means to cause someone to fall
down. The given sentence states that somebody caused Peter
to fall down in the penalty area. Hence, ‘was brought down in the’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.560.(d) annoyed me and I blew up
The phrasal verb ‘blow up’ means to lose temper or express
anger. The given sentence states that Mahesh’s attitude
annoyed me so much that I lost my temper. Hence, ‘annoyed me
and I blew up’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.561.(c) as well as
‘As...as’ is a comparative structure used to compare two things
and ‘as + adjective/adverb + as’ is the correct grammatical
structure for the given sentence. Hence, ‘as well as’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.562.(b) the storm knocked out the power
The phrasal verb ‘knock out’ means to cause a failure or
disruption. The given sentence states that the storm caused a
power failure, so they're using candles for lighting. Hence, ‘the
storm knocked out the power’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.563.(c) I would have had
The given sentence is an example of a third conditional
sentence and the correct grammatical structure for it is “If +
past perfect(had + V ) …….. Would have + V ”. Hence, ‘I would
3 3
have had’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.564.(b) with their dialectical varieties
Possessive pronoun ‘Its’ is used for a singular noun and ‘their’ is
used for a plural noun. Similarly, ‘European languages’ is a plural
noun and it will take ‘their’ with it. Hence, ‘with their dialectical
varieties’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.565.(a) finish the marathon in record time
The phrase ‘in record time’ means within a remarkably short
amount of time. Preposition ‘In’ specifies the time frame for the
action of finishing the marathon. Hence, ‘finish the marathon in
record time’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.566.(b) nothing else
‘Nothing else’ is used to emphasize a quality or feature that one
has. Similarly, in the given sentence, there is emphasis on the
quality of pride. Hence, ‘nothing else’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.567.(a) has not been and can never be
‘Singular Sub. + has + V 3’ and ‘Modal(can) + V 1’ is the correct
grammatical structure for the given sentence. Hence, ‘has not
been(V 3) and can never be(V,)’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.568.(a) for the last several years
‘Since’ is used to denote a point of time like since 1960. ‘For’ is
used for a fixed period of time(countable) like 2 years/3
Sentence Improvement
months/4 days/8 hours. Hence, ‘for the last several years’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.569.(a) from one and all in the country and abroad
The phrase ‘one and all’ conveys the idea that he received
appreciation from everyone. Also, article ‘the’ will be used before
the country. Hence, ‘from one and all in the country and abroad’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.570.(b) No correction required.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.571.(c) continued to study for his upcoming exam
The given sentence contains a verb in past form i.e. “was
exhausted” so we will use simple past tense(V ) in the latter
2
part. Hence, ‘continued to study for his upcoming exam’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.572.(c) Prefigure - to give an advance indication or warning
of something.
Predict - to forecast or foretell an event or outcome.
Deliberate - to think carefully and consider all aspects before
making a decision.
Precipitate - to cause something to happen suddenly or
unexpectedly.
Proliferate - to cause something to happen suddenly or
unexpectedly.
Sol.573.(b) found everywhere in a huge amount
The phrase "found everywhere in a huge amount" conveys the
same meaning more clearly and grammatically. Hence, ‘found
everywhere in a huge amount’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.574.(c) guests are gathered by
We use plural nouns after ‘all’ and the preposition ‘by’ means
near or close to something. Hence, ‘guests are gathered by’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.575.(a) the newly released books
‘Released’ means to make something available for public use &
‘realised’ means to become aware of or understand something.
The phrase ‘the newly released books’ means the new books
which are now available for the public. Hence, ‘the newly
released books’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.576.(c) Reprehensible
‘Reprehensible’ means deserving blame or strong criticism &
‘Ignominious’ means deserving shame or disgrace. The given
sentence states that the fall of Ranjith for the petty material
benefit was really deserving of shame. Hence, ‘reprehensible’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.577.(b) for hundreds of years
‘Until’ must be replaced with ‘for’ as we generally use preposition
‘for’ to indicate a fixed period of time(countable). Hence, ‘for
hundreds of years’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.578.(a) have considered the elective courses
‘Consider’ means to think carefully about something, before
making a decision. The given sentence states that all colleagues
of Rohit except Joseph have thought carefully about the
courses. Hence, ‘have considered the elective courses’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.579.(c) swept away by the emotive power
The phrase ‘swept away by the emotive power’ means being
deeply moved by intense emotions. The given sentence states
that the audience was emotionally moved by the music and the
skill of the musicians. Hence, ‘swept away by the emotive power’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.580.(d) need to put away
The phrase ‘put away’ means to place something in an
appropriate or usual place. The given sentence states that I need
to put my clothes in a proper place before leaving for work, or I
will be restless when I return. Hence, ‘need to put away’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.581.(c) Pounding against the windows - hitting the windows
hard.
Sol.582.(d) building up inside her
The phrase ‘building up’ means becoming stronger or more
intense. Hence, ‘building up inside her’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.583.(b) at the moment
The phrase ‘at the moment’ means ‘right now’ or ‘currently.’
Hence, ‘at the moment’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.584.(d) that are abundant
‘Abundant’ means available in large quantities. Hence, ‘that are
abundant‘’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.585.(c) if he expresses
The given sentence is an example of Type 1 conditional and the
correct grammatical structure is “if + simple present…….will +V ”.
1
Hence ‘if he expresses’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.586.(c) you are wishing to watch
The phrase ‘would like to’ is a polite way of expressing our
preference or intention to do or have something. Similarly, we
use the phrase ‘wish to’ to express our desire or intention to do
something. Hence, ‘you are wishing to watch’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.587.(a) accordance with
‘In accordance with’ is the correct phrase. ‘In accordance with’
means following or obeying a rule, law or advice. Hence,
‘accordance with’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.588.(b) but it is impossible
We generally use the conjunction ‘but’ to express a different
opinion or idea. Hence, ‘but it is impossible’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.589.(a) where the city park is?
Whenever Wh. Words(like who, whom, where, why, how, etc) are
written in the middle of a sentence, the helping verb and the
main verb are written after the subject. E.g. - I do not know
where she lives. Therefore, ‘is’ will be used after the subject ‘city
park’. Hence, ‘where the city park is’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.590.(c) No correction required.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.591.(c) No fewer than
‘Fewer’ is used when we are comparing countable objects i.e.
pedestrians. Hence, ‘No fewer than’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.592.(d) has impacted the way we consume
The word "consume" means to take in information or media and
Sentence Improvement
the phrase "has impacted the way we consume" states the idea
of change in the way we take in digital content. Hence, ‘has
impacted the way we consume’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.593.(d) called around the neighbourhood
The phrase ‘call around’ means making calls or contacting
different individuals or locations. The given sentence states that
Meenakshi contacted or reached out to various people or places
within her neighborhood to seek support for her campaign.
Hence, ‘called around the neighbourhood’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.594.(d) that would revolutionise the industry
‘Revolutionise’ means to bring about significant change or
transformation in something, which has the same meaning as
the phrase “that would transform the sector”. Hence, ‘that would
revolutionise the industry’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.595.(d) brightened up when they
‘Brightened up’ is a phrasal verb that means to become happier
or more cheerful. Hence, ‘brightened up when they’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.596.(b) lay off some
‘Lay off’ means to discharge an employee temporarily or
permanently because of shortage of work or funds. The given
sentence states that the company is discharging some
employees. Hence, ‘lay off some’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.597.(c) it is evident that a lot more women
‘Subject + Verb + Object/Complement’ is the correct
grammatical structure of a sentence. Hence, ‘It is evident that a
lot more women’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.598.(c) least reliable
‘Least / most reliable’ is the correct superlative degree of
‘reliable’. Hence, ‘least reliable’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.599.(b) experimenting with different techniques
The phrase ‘experimenting with different techniques’ means
trying out various methods to achieve a goal. The given
sentence states that the young artist spent countless hours
trying out various methods and mediums. Hence, ‘experimenting
with different techniques’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.600.(b) expected
‘Expect’ means to think that something will happen. The word
‘expect’ makes the sentence meaningful. Hence, ‘expect’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.601.(b) has grown rapidly
‘Has/have/had + V ’ is the correct grammatical structure. Hence,
3
‘has grown(V ) rapidly’ is the most appropriate answer.
3
Sol.602.(d)
Impress- to make a strong impact or influence on someone.
Persuade- to convince or influence someone to do something.
Halt- to pause or to stop for a short period of time.
Suppress- To stop or prevent something.
Outrage- to make someone angry by repeating an inappropriate
behaviour.
Sol.603.(c) Instil - to introduce knowledge, values, or ideas by
repeatedly teaching.
Inculcate- to gradually introduce something in a person's mind.
Endanger- to put someone or something at risk or in a
dangerous situation.
Inspire- to motivate or encourage someone.
Import- to bring in goods or services from another country.
Sol.604.(c) own image
The phrase "in his own image" is commonly used to describe the
belief that God created human beings with characteristics or
attributes resembling his own. Hence, ‘own image’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.605.(d) frog adapts itself
‘Adapt’ means to become adjusted to new conditions. In the
given sentence, the frog is adjusting or modifying itself to live
both in water and on land. While, ‘Adopt’ means to legally take
(another's child) and bring it up as one's own. And ‘Adept’ means
a person who is skilled or proficient at something. Hence, ‘frog
adapts itself’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.606.(b) Deceive - misleading someone into believing
something false.
Fooling- tricking someone into believing something that is not
true.
Betraying- to be disloyal to someone or something.
Cheating- to act dishonestly or unfairly in order to gain an
advantage.
Revealing- to make something known that was previously
hidden.
Sol.607.(b) concepts of liberty
The phrase "concept of liberty" means the idea of freedom which
includes making your own choices and living your life the way
you want. The given sentence states that the Indian
Independence movement attempted to establish the concept of
liberty and social welfare. Hence, ‘concepts of liberty’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.608.(b) for a rainy day
The idiom 'for a rainy day' means saving money or resources for
our future needs. Hence, 'for a rainy day' is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.609.(a) Aware of
The phrase ‘beware of’ means to be aware of something. This
phrase can not be used with a stative verb (‘is’ in this sentence).
Therefore, ‘beware of’ must be replaced with ‘aware of’ to make
a grammatically correct structure. Hence, ‘Aware of’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.610.(c) Ruined- destroyed or severely damaged.
Ravaged - to cause great damage to something or someone.
Reaffirmed - to state something again clearly and firmly.
Rescinded - to state that a law or decision is no longer valid.
Retracted - withdrawn or taken back, typically a statement or
promise.
Sol.611.(d) Living conditions
The phrase 'living conditions' means the overall quality of life,
including things like housing, health, education, income, safety,
and the environment. The given sentence states that national
development is defined as the improvement in the overall quality
of people's lives. Hence, 'living conditions' is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.612.(b) get off my
There is a prepositional error in the sentence. Preposition ‘of’
Sentence Improvement
must be replaced with ‘off’ as the phrase ‘get off’ means to leave
a particular place or position. Hence, ‘get off my’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.613.(b) went on the rampage
‘Drove’ must be replaced with ‘went’ as the phrase ‘go on a
rampage’ means to rush around in a wild or violent way, causing
damage or destruction. Hence, ‘went on rampage’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.614.(d) I’m not wearing
The phrase ‘at the moment’ describes an action happening right
now. And we generally use present continuous tense(is/am/are
+ V-ing) to denote an action happening at the current moment.
Hence, ‘I’m not wearing’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.615.(d) house were dashed when
‘Beaten’ must be replaced with ‘dashed’ as ‘dashed’ means
destroyed or ruined. Hence, ‘house were dashed when’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.616.(c) every single day on foot
The phrase ‘on foot’ is used when a person travels by walking.
Hence, ‘every single day on foot’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.617.(d) Prays
‘Preys’ must be replaced with ‘prays’ as ‘pray’ means to talk to
God or a higher power. While ‘Prey’ means an animal that is
caught and killed by another for food. Hence, ‘prays’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.618.(c) via various forms
The term ‘means’ means a method used for doing something
such as means of transport. Whereas the term ‘forms’ means a
particular type of variety of something. In the given sentence,
various types of media have been listed, such as television,
newspapers and films. Hence, ‘via various forms’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.619.(b) Exhausted- Extremely tired.
Sol.620.(b) punishment for wrongdoing
The phrase “retribution for wickedness” means punishment for
wrongdoing. Hence, ‘punishment for wrongdoing’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.621.(d) notable
‘Noticeable’ means capable of being noticed or seen easily while
‘Notable’ means worthy of notice or attention due to some
special quality or significance. Hence, ‘notable’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.622.(a) an ace up his sleeve
The idiom "an ace up his sleeve" means having a secret plan or
advantage that is kept hidden until the right moment to use it.
Hence, ‘an ace up his sleeve’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.623.(b) Agony - Extreme pain.
Ache - a continuous, dull pain or discomfort in a part of the
body.
Hurt - to experience physical or emotional pain or distress.
Sting - to cause a sharp, sudden pain, often from a bee or insect
bite.
Sol.624.(b) among themselves
We use ‘among’ for more than two persons and ‘between’ for
two persons.
However, there are more than two persons (players) mentioned
in the given sentence. Hence, ‘among themselves’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.625.(a) trapped inside
The phrase ‘trapped inside’ means trapped within something.
Similarly, In the given sentence, greenhouse gases are trapped
within the Earth's atmosphere. Hence, ‘trapped inside’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.626.(a) Tended - to be likely to happen.
Inclined - willing or likely to do something.
Conflicted - having opposing feelings.
Refused - declined or said no to something.
Conspired - planned secretly to do something harmful or
unlawful.
Sol.627.(d) Diffident - Shy due to lack of confidence.
Sol.628.(b) crossing
If 'when' is used without the subject and the auxiliary verb 'be', it
always takes the present participle form(V-ing) of the verb.
Hence, 'crossing(V-ing)' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.629.(d) military personnel
"Military personnel" refers to individuals who are part of the
armed forces or military services of a country. So, we will use
‘military personnel’ in place of ‘military person’. Hence, ‘military
personnel’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.630.(c) Saved the Union during
‘Save’ must be replaced with ‘saved’ as we need to use ‘Simple
Past Tense(V )’ to denote actions that happened in the past
2
Hence, ‘saved the union during’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.631.(d) are visiting
According to the Subject-Verb agreement rule, If two subjects
are connected with conjunction ‘and’ then they will be treated as
a plural subject and will take a plural verb only. Hence, ‘are
visiting’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.632.(c) Broke into
The phrase “broke into” means to enter somewhere by force.
Hence, ‘broke into’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.633.(a) Aptitude for
There is a prepositional error in the given sentence. Preposition
‘on’ must be replaced with ‘for’ as Aptitude for" used to describe
someone's natural ability or skill in a particular field or activity.
Hence, ‘aptitude for’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.634.(d) gave me
‘Had given me’ must be replaced with ‘gave me’ as “Simple Past
Tense(V )” is used to state facts that were true in the past.
2
Hence, ‘gave(V ) me’ is the most appropriate answer.
2
Sol.635.(c) in the midnight air
Preposition 'in' is used to indicate the presence or location of
something within a certain place or condition. Similarly, in the
given sentence 'charm' is a quality that is present in the midnight
air. Hence, 'in the midnight air' is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.636.(c) Falsehood
Falsehood - a complete and blatant lie.
Blasphemy - disrespectful or offensive words or actions
towards religious beliefs.
Whooper - someone who tells big lies or makes exaggerated
Sentence Improvement
claims.
Perjury - telling a lie after promising to tell the truth, especially in
a court of law.
Sol.637.(d) cut down
The phrasal verb ‘cut down’ means to reduce. Hence, ‘cut down’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.638.(b) Cadaverous
‘Cadaverous’ means something that is extremely pale, gaunt,
and resembling a lifeless or dead body in appearance. Hence,
‘cadaverous’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.639.(c) that I might succeed
‘Modal verbs’ are auxiliary verbs(also called helping verbs) like
can, will, could, shall, must, would, might, and should. However,
after a modal verb, we generally use the first form of the verb
(V ). Hence, ‘might succeed(V )’ is the most appropriate
1 1
structure.
Sol.640.(d) for a few moments
'Few' means negligible or zero whereas 'a few' means a small
but considerable number of something. Therefore, ‘few’ must be
replaced with ‘a few.’ Hence, ‘for a few moments’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.641.(c) Rambling- speaking at length about trivial things.
Twittering - bird sounds.
Littering - carelessly dropping trash, creating a mess.
Sol.642.(a) came up
The phrase ‘came up’ means to be raised, as in a discussion.
Hence, ‘came up’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.643.(a) Laid down
The phrase “laid down” means surrendering or putting
something down. Hence, ‘Laid down’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.644.(a) down to earth- very realistic and sensible.
down to it- focused on the task at hand.
down to bottom- at the lowest point.
down to drown- to sink under water and die.
Sol.645.(c) Advised against
The verb ‘advise’ is often followed by the preposition ‘against’
when giving a warning to avoid something. Hence, ‘advised
against’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.646.(a) refused point blank to do
‘Of’ must be replaced with ‘to’ as ‘refused point blank’ is an idiom
and it should be followed by ‘to + infinitive(V 1 ).’ Hence, ‘refused
point blank to do’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.647.(c)
chronological order - in the order of their occurrence.
Aesthetic order - organize things in a way that emphasizes their
beauty.
Historic order - arranging things based on their historical
importance or relevance.
Diachronic order - organizing things based on their evolution or
changes over time
Sol.648.(c) he must have studied well
We need to use present perfect tense (have + V ) to indicate the
3
action that was completed in the past but has connection to the
present. The given sentence states that Raju did very well in the
exam, he must have studied well. Hence, ‘must have studied(V 3 )
well’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.649.(a) Preening its plumage and became motionless.
Possessive form of the pronoun ‘It’ will be used i.e. ‘Its’ and 𝑉 of
2
‘become’ will be used as the first clause of the sentence is in the
past tense. Hence, ‘Preening its plumage and became
motionless.’ is the most appropriate answer.
eduquity-based pattern (ebp)
Questions (650 to 740)
Q.650. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required".
No, they are normal people, (although they perceive the world
different).
(a) but they perceive the world differently
(b) No substitution required
(c) from they perceive the world differently
(d) while they perceive the world different
Q.651. At the grocery store, coffee is in an same aisles as tea.
(a) a same aisles as (b) the same aisle as
(c) same aisle is (d) No improvement
Q.652. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required.
The rodeo is (great way to unite soldier's skills and build) esprit
de corps.
(a) a great way to unite soldiers' skills and build
(b) No substitution required
(c) great way to unite soldier's skills and building
(d) a great way to unite an soldier's skill and build
Q.653. The waiter giving the diners some complimentary mints.
(a) give the diner (b) given the diners
(c) No improvement (d) gave the diners
Q.654. The water leaked in with a hole in the roof.
(a) No improvement (b) by a holed
(c) through a holes (d) through a hole
Q.655. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required".
This looks (like one of those unwelcome social summons which
call upon a man) either to be bored or to lie.
(a) like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call
upon a man
(b) like one of these unwelcome social summons that call upon
a man
(c) like one of those unwelcome social summon that call upon a
man
(d) No substitution required
Q.656. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required' if the
sentence is correct as given.
She ran 12 kms at a stretch, (which are a greater) distance for a
rookie.
(a) No correction required (b) which is quite some
Sentence Improvement
(c) which are greatest (d) what is great
Q.657. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select "no substitution required"
This preoccupation with him was becoming an obsession (that
was beginning to effect her ability) to take care of the house.
(a) that was beginning to affect her ability
(b) which was beginning to effect her ability
(c) No substitution required
(d) which was begin to affect her ability
Q.658. The cat was lastly see in the backyard.
(a) last saw in (b) No improvement (c) last seen in (d) last see in
Q.659. Watch your step - the third stair have a broken tread.
(a) has a break (b) No improvement
(c) has a broken (d) has a broke
Q.660. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need
tosubstitute it, select 'no substitution required".
He suggested (there was collusions through objectors, due to
similarities) in some letters sent to the council.
(a) there was collusions from the objector, due to similarities
(b) there was collusion between objectors, due to similarities
(c) No substitution required
(d) their was collusion by the objectors, due to similarities
Q.661. Raccoons have being more active at night.
(a) are more (b) are few (c) No improvement (d) are much
Q.662. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option ‘no correction requires’ if the
sentence is correct as given.
With a (sudden push off understanding), Harry realised who the
people in the end beds must be.
(a) sudden rush of understanding
(b) suddenly rushed understanding
(c) No correction required
(d) All of sudden understand
Q.663. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required'.
(In fact, climbing fern is spreading so rapidly that its) now the
state's worst invasive weed.
(a) In fact, climbing fern is spreading so rapid that it's
(b) In fact, climbing fern is spread so rapidly that its
(c) In fact, climbing fern is spreading so rapidly that it's
(d) No substitution required
Q.664. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
(Much times), I have felt that conversations like these must take
place in person
(a) Many a times (b) Many time
(c) No correction required (d) Many a time
Q.665. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
One of the main climbing routes, approaches the summit from
the southeast (in the Nepal).
(a) at the Nepal (b) in Nepal
(c) No correction required (d) from the Nepal
Q.666. My history assignment is due on Wednesday.
(a) are due at (b) No improvement (c) were due on (d) is dues in
Q.667. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required".
Bonaparte, unlike Hoche, was not (eagerly to embark in) a
serious Irish expedition.
(a) eager to embark on (b) No substitution required
(c) eagerest to embarked on (d) eager into embark in
Q.668. I'll see you in the meets next week.
(a) at the meeting (b) No improvement
(c) of the meeting (d) on the meeting
Q.669. In the summer, the weathering can be very hot around
here.
(a) weathers could being (b) No improvement
(c) weather is be (d) weather can be
Q.670. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
The (captain with the members of his team) failed to qualify for
the African Nations Cup finals.
(a) No correction required
(b) captain and his team
(c) captain along with the members of his team
(d) captain along side the members of his team
Q.671. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select "no substitution required"
The query isn't (whether he will admit it, but when).
(a) No substitution required
(b) whether he will be admitting it or not, but when?
(c) whether or nor he will admit it, but when?
(d) whether he will admit it or not, but when?
Q.672. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
The (roof collapsing) in a roar of rock and rubble.
(a) roof have collapsed (b) No correction required
(c) roof was collapse (d) roof collapsed
Q.673. The Tagore House is rehearsing a skit for the school’s
Annual Day Function.
(a) has been rehearsing a skits (b) was rehearse a skit
(c) is rehearsed an skit (d) No improvement
Q.674. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
The tourists (rendered to the) museum on time.
(a) appeared at the (b) occurred to the
(c) No correction required (d) arrived at the
Sentence Improvement
Q.675. The number of homes with running watered has been
rising sharply since 1985.
(a) with run water (b) with running water
(c) of ran watered (d) No improvement
Q.676. She was fined of driving over the speed limit.
(a) fine of driving (b) fined for drive
(c) fined for driving (d) No improvement
Q.677. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option no correction required' if the
sentence is correct as given.
Apple has also introduced a (rule that seemed tie) to its recent
dispute with Basecamp
(a) rule that seems tied (b) rule that seemingly tied
(c) No correction required (d) rule which seemed tie
Q.678. The cat sits in the window and staring at the squirrel.
(a) No improvement (b) stares at (c) stares on (d) stared at
Q.679. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select "no substitution required".
(The transit of the Planet of Love happen in pairs), eight years
apart every century.
(a) The transits of the Planet of Love happen in pairs
(b) No substitution required
(c) The transits of the Planet of Love happens at pairs
(d) The transit of Planet of Love happen in pairs
Q.680. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select "no substitution required".
Some of them were nearly (as hard as ligament, and many an
inch in length).
(a) as hard as ligaments, and many were an inch long
(b) No substitution required
(c) hard as ligament, and many an inch at length
(d) as hard as a ligament, and many an inches in length
Q.681. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required".
The only course of action to (fend of the loud clamor off
conspiracy theories) is to keep everyone fully informed.
(a) fend off the loud clamour of conspiracy theories
(b) No substitution required
(c) fend off the loud clamour off conspiracy theories
(d) fend of the loud clamour of conspiracy Theories
Q.682. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required".
We were asked by (Jane's aunt where she was last night.)
(a) No substitution required
(b) Jane aunt's where she was last night?
(c) Jane's aunt where was she last night.
(d) Jane's aunt where was she was last night?
Q.683. This has sharp decreased the cases of water-borne
diseases.
(a) sharp decrease (b) sharply decreased
(c) sharper decreases (d) No improvement
Q.684. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select "no substitution required’
(Beside myself the only English people) there were Keith and
Doreen.
(a) Besides I, the only English speaking people
(b) No substitution required
(c) Besides myself, the only English people
(d) Beside me, the only English people
Q.685. There has been a spate of some unfortunately events in
Madurai.
(a) unfortunate events (b) unfortunately event
(c) No improvement (d) unfortunate some events
Q.686. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
I received word that you (were attempting) to contact me.
(a) No correction required (b) were strike
(c) has attempting (d) was attempting
Q.687. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required".
(Plots to dispose him came) to nothing.
(a) No substitution required
(b) Plots to dispose off him comes
(c) Plots to dispose of him came
(d) Plots which dispose him came
Q.688. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required'.
The Bank of New York has increased (interest rates four times
from last January.)
(a) interest rates four times since last January.
(b) the interest rates four time from last January.
(c) No substitution required
(d) interest rates from last January, four times.
Q.689. Drive two blocks and turn right at the traffic lights.
(a) turn right in (b) No improvement
(c) turns right at (d) turn rightly at
Q.690. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required".
(Because he has been in custody from last July.) Pickard will
now be released in four months.
(a) Because he had been under custody from last July,
(b) Because he has been in custody since last July,
(c) Because he had been in custody from last July,
(d) No substitution required
Q.691. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required’ if the
sentence is correct as given.
He lost his temper (by a driver) flashed her headlights as he
overtook.
(a) afterwards a driver (b) No correction required
(c) considering a driver (d) after a driver
Q.692. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
Sentence Improvement
substitute it, select 'no substitution required’.
(There's many a good tunes) played on an old violin.
(a) No substitution required (b) There are many a good tunes
(c) There's many good tune (d) There are many good tunes
Q.693. Even in time of natural disasters, the farmers had to pay
their share of taxes.
(a) times of natural (b) timer of natural
(c) times of naturally (d) No improvement
Q.694. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
Christian turned round and (strided off into) the blackness and I
got into my car.
(a) strode off (b) strode of
(c) strided of (d) No correction required
Q.695. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required' if the
sentence is correct as given.
How (can a book such as) be written before I'd lived the
incidents it described?
(a) No correction required (b) could such a book
(c) must so a book (d) may such a book
Q.696. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required".
He lights his pipe, (and on many an evenings he helps me with)
dishes.
(a) and on many evenings he helped me with the
(b) and on many evenings he helps me with the
(c) and many an evenings he helps me with the
(d) No substitution required
Q.697. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required"
That is not a solution available (to most people for who email
has become necessity.)
(a) to most people for who email has become a necessity.
(b) to most people for whom email has become a necessity.
(c) for most people to whom email has became necessity.
(d) No substitution required
Q.698. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required' if the
sentence is correct as given.
His temperament (disposed him to) argue readily with people.
(a) disposed him of to (b) dispose him to
(c) disposed him off to (d) No correction required
Q.699. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
(The shocked entrance) of so many witnesses seemed to have
brought them to their senses.
(a) The shocking entrances (b) The unexpected entrance
(c) The unexpecting entrances (d) No correction required
Q.700. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
The relationship between two people is (by the way in what) they
feel and behave towards each other.
(a) the way by which (b) by which ways
(c) the way in which (d) No correction required
Q.701. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select 'no substitution required"
Besides the atmospheric changes that make us sweat,
(hormonal or emotional stimulus can also cause sweating).
(a) hormonal and emotional stimuli also causes sweating
(b) hormonal or emotional stimuli can also cause sweating
(c) No substitution required
(d) hormonal or emotional stimulus also causing sweating
Q.702. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required’ if the
sentence is correct as given.
We've made extraordinary (flowering as a) society in that regard.
(a) progress as a (b) advance as a
(c) improvement by a (d) No correction required
Q.703. Select the most appropriate option to substitute the
bracketed segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘no substitution required’.
It is expected that this police power will only apply to air and
(sea routes between the Great Britain and the Northern Ireland).
(a) sea routes across the Great Britain and Northern Ireland
(b) sea routes across the Great Britain and the Northern Ireland
(c) sea routes between Great Britain and Northern Ireland
(d) No substitution required
Q.704. I like to hang my laundry outside in the suns to dry.
(a) No improvement (b) sun to dried
(c) sun to dries (d) sun to dry
Q.705. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required if the
sentence is correct as given.
It was a (easement to be far away) from that malicious old
labyrinth with its stares and gossip.
(a) help to be away (b) relief to be away
(c) No correction required (d) rest to be far
Q.706. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option ‘no correction required’ if the
sentence is correct as given.
She (had a reputation) brilliance.
(a) No correction required (b) have a reputation for
(c) has a reputation for (d) has a reputation of
Q.707. A man may die, nations may rise and fall, but an idea
lived on.
(a) lives in (b) live on (c) No improvement (d) lives on
Q.708. She cuts her haired short in the summer.
(a) hair short (b) hairy short (c) No improvement (d) hair shortest
Q.709. Herbalism had become an all but extinct skill in the \
Western world.
Sentence Improvement
(a) No improvement
(b) Herbalism has become but all an extinct skill
(c) Herbalism become an extinct skill
(d) Herbalism has become but an extinct skill
Q.710. This heap of rubbish has not been remove for 6 months.
(a) No improvement (b) been removing from
(c) been removes since (d) been removed for
Q.711. Africa has glaciers on the Mount Kilimanjaro
Tanzania and on the Mount Kenya.
(a) Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania and the Mount Kenya
(b) Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania and on Mount Kenya
(c) No improvement
(d) the Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania and to Mount Kenya
Q.712. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. In case no improvement is needed, select 'No
improvement'.
The councillor (said that, "We plan to make the state a safer
place for) everyone."
(a) said, "We plan to make the state a safest place for
(b) said, "We plan to make the state a safer place for
(c) No improvement
(d) said that, "We are planning to make the state a safe place for
Q.713. People who came into contact with the carrier are in
danger of catching the disease.
(a) at dangerous of (b) No improvement
(c) in danger off (d) in dangers for
Q.714. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. Select the option 'no correction required' if the
sentence is correct as given.
We (opened) on a new travel venture.
(a) No correction required (b) Begun (c) Initiated (d) Embarked
Q.715. Select the option that will improve the (bracketed) part of
the sentence. In case of no improvement select the option 'No
improvement'.
The play was (either as funny or as) disturbing as Shivang told it
was.
(a) No improvement (b) either as funny nor as
(c) neither as funny nor as (d) neither as funny or as
Q.716. A fully grow Chihuahua weighs less than the average
house cat.
(a) No improvement (b) fully grown
(c) fullest grown (d) fully growth
Q.717. The dog will whine at the door when he wants to go out.
(a) wants to gone (b) want to go
(c) No improvement (d) wants to going
Q.718. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. In case no improvement is needed, select 'No
improvement'.
The businessman also insisted (that the police had issued him
several summons).
(a) that the police issued him with several summonses
(b) that the police issued him several summons
(c) No improvement
(d) that the police had issued him several summonses
in
Q.719. Select the option that will improve the (bracketed) part of
the sentence. In case of no improvement select the option 'No
improvement'.
The detention (arised two distinct) but closely linked questions.
(a) raised two distinct (b) rises two distinct
(c) No improvement (d) increased two distinct
Q.720. The thieves entered a house at night and decamp with
valuable worth Rs. 50,000.
(a) decamped with valuables (b) No improvement
(c) decamps with valuable (d) decamping with valuably
Q.721. Their appointment lasted for almost an hour.
(a) lastly for (b) lasting for (c) No improvement (d) last for
Q.722. A young girl was kidnapped from the mainly street in 3
o'clock yesterday afternoon.
(a) main streets in (b) main street on
(c) No improvement (d) main street at
Q.723. Select the option that will improve the (bracketed) part of
the sentence. In case of no improvement select the option 'No
improvement'.
There's even a (picture by which a witch is riding) a broomstick
on the sides of the police cars.
(a) No improvement (b) picture that of a witch riding
(c) pictures of witch riding (d) picture of a witch riding
Q.724. The dog chased the ball into the neighbour's yard.
(a) chase the ball (b) No improvement
(c) chasing the ball (d) has chasing the ball
Q.725. Add more flour if the dough is too stickiest.
(a) too stickier (b) too sticky (c) No improvement (d) much stick
Q.726. There are a number of places of historical or religiously
importance.
(a) religiosity important (b) religious importance
(c) No improvement (d) religious important
Q.727. He always checks the weather in the morning before he
leaves for working.
(a) leaves for work (b) leave for work
(c) left for works (d) No improvement
Q.728. My new shoes gave me a blistered on my right heel.
(a) me a blisters (b) I a blister
(c) No improvement (d) me a blister
Q.729. I can't concentrate on my work because I am thinking off
that beautiful scene.
(a) was think of (b) am thinking about
(c) is thinking about (d) No improvement
Q.730. Select the option that will improve the (bracketed) part of
the sentence. In case of no improvement select the option 'No
improvement'.
Check all radiators for (meagre leaks, special) round pipework
connections.
(a) small leaks, especially (b) No improvement
(c) modest leaks, specially (d) cramped leaks, specially
Q.731. Remember to close the windows before you leave.
(a) your leave (b) No improvement
(c) you leaves (d) you have leaving
Q.732. None of the witnessed could identify the suspect.
Sentence Improvement
(a) No improvement (b) witness had identify
(c) witnessed could identified (d) witnesses could identify
Q.733. The early morning flight is the lest expensive.
(a) least's expensive (b) least expensive
(c) lastly expensive (d) No improvement
Q.734. Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the
bracketed word segment correctly and completes the sentence
meaningfully. In case no improvement is needed, select 'No
improvement'.
Nonetheless, (many an old poets, such as Tennyson and
Browning, has) kept their romances to the end.
(a) many old poets, such as Tennyson and Browning, have
(b) many old poets, such Tennyson and Browning, has
(c) No improvement
(d) many a old poets, such Tennyson and Browning, has
Q.735. His shoes were soaked from walk through the dew.
(a) soaked from walking (b) soak from walking
(c) No improvement (d) soaks from walk
Q.736. But what of the young people whom are part of the
cricket crowds, some of who are presumably born in England?
(a) who are part of the cricket crowds, some of who are
presumably born in England
(b) No improvement
(c) whom are part of the cricket crowds, some of whom are
presumably born in England
(d) who are part of the cricket crowds, some of whom are
presumably born in England
Q.737. There has been a noticeable fall in the number of
children dying from malnutrition.
(a) noticeable falling (b) No improvement
(c) noticeably falling (d) noticeably falls
Q.738. Dad said that, “She would have been a great sister if she
was just a bit more careful”.
(a) No improvement
(b) that, "She would have been a great sister if she were just a bit
more careful"
(c) "She would have been a great sister if she were just a bit
more careful”
(d) “She would have been a greatest sister if she was just a bit
more careful"
Q.739. The number of women working outside homes has been
steady increasing.
(a) has been steadily (b) had been steadier
(c) No improvement (d) have been steady
Q.740. Edward II is tragic than some other plays by the
dramatist.
(a) as least tragic as (b) No substitution required
(c) the most tragic (d) less tragic than
Sol.650.(a) but they perceive the world differently.
Conjunction ‘but’ will be used instead of ‘although’ as we use
‘but’ to connect ideas that contrast and adverb ‘differently’ will
be used to describe the verb ‘perceive’. Hence, ‘but they perceive
the world differently’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.651.(b) the same aisle as
Article ‘the’ is used to refer to specific or particular nouns.
Similarly, the given sentence talks about a specific noun (aisle).
Hence, ‘the same aisle as’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.652.(a) a great way to unite soldiers' skills and build
We generally use article ‘a’ to refer to a nonspecific or general
noun. Hence, ‘a great way to unite soldiers' skills and build’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.653.(d) Gave the diners
‘Giving’ will be replaced by ‘gave’ as we generally use past
indefinite(V₂) to describe completed actions or events that
occurred in the past. Hence, ‘gave’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.654.(d) through a hole
‘With’ must be replaced with ‘through’ as we generally use the
preposition (through) indicating movement or passage from one
side or location to another. Hence, ‘through a hole’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.655.(a) like one of those unwelcome social summonses
which call upon a man
‘Summons’ must be replaced with ‘Summonses’ as we use plural
nouns (summonses) with ‘these/those’. Hence, ‘like one of those
unwelcome social summonses which call upon a man’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.656.(b) which is quite some
‘Which are a greater’ must be replaced with ‘which is quite some’
in the given sentence. The word "which" refers to the distance of
12 kms, and the word "are" is plural because it agrees with the
noun "distances". However, in this case, we are only talking
about one distance, so the verb "is" will be used. The adverb
"quite" is used to emphasise the distance, and the word "some"
is used to indicate that the distance is significant. Hence, ‘which
is quite some’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.657.(a) that was beginning to affect her ability
The word "that" is a relative pronoun that refers to the noun
"preoccupation". The word "which" is also a relative pronoun, but
it is used to refer to things, not actions. In this case, we are
talking about the action of the preoccupation affecting her
ability, so we need to use the word "that". Hence, ‘that was
beginning to affect her ability’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.658.(c) last seen in
‘Lastly’ must be replaced with ‘last’ as we generally use last as
an adverb to show the last occasion before the present and the
given sentence is in passive voice so we the 3rd form of the
verb(seen) will be used. Hence, ‘last seen in’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.659.(c) has a broken
‘Have a broken’ must be replaced with ‘has a broken’ in the given
sentence. According to the subject-verb agreement singular
subject always takes singular verb and plural subject always
takes plural verb. Here the subject ‘third stair’ is a singular
subject. Hence, ‘has a broken’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.660.(b)
there was collusion between objectors, due to similarities
The word "collusion" means "secret agreement or cooperation
especially for an illegal or harmful purpose." In this case, the
objectors are cooperating with each other to send similar letters
to the council. The word "between" is used to indicate that the
Sentence Improvement
collusion is between two or more parties. Hence, ‘there was
collusion between objectors, due to similarities’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.661.(a) Are more
‘Have being’ must be replaced with ‘are’ as we generally use
simple present tense (Sub + are + obj) to describe actions that
are facts or generalizations. Hence, ‘are more’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.662.(a) Sudden rush of understanding
‘Put off’ must be replaced with ‘rush of’ as the phrase ‘sudden
rush of’ means to do something quickly. Hence, ‘Sudden rush of
understanding’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.663.(c) In fact, climbing fern is spreading so rapidly that it's
It's is a contraction and should be used where a sentence would
read "it is." Its with no apostrophe,is the possessive pronoun, like
"his" and "her," for nouns without gender.Hence, ‘In fact, climbing
fern is spreading so rapidly that it's ’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.664.(d) Many a time
We generally use the phrase ‘Many a time’ to convey that
something has happened frequently or repeatedly. It emphasizes
the repetition of an action or event. Hence, ‘Many a time’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.665.(b) In Nepal
Article ‘the’ must be removed as we only use article the with the
name of the countries which have plural or singular nouns, are
composed of multiple words or include words like ‘republic',
‘kingdom’ or ‘states’. For example The United States of America,
The Philippines, The Maldives etc. Hence, ‘In Nepal’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.666.(b) No improvement
The sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.667.(a) Eager to embark on
Adverb ‘Eagerly’ must be replaced with the adjective ‘Eager’ as
Adjectives are words that describe or modify nouns (Bonaparte).
We generally use prepositions (on/upon) with the verb ‘Embark’.
Hence, ‘Eager to embark on’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.668.(a) at the meeting
The verb ‘meets’ must be replaced with the noun ‘meeting’ and
we generally use the preposition ‘at’ to indicate the specific
location or point in time where an event or gathering takes place.
Hence, ‘at the meeting’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.669.(d) weather can be
‘weathering can be’ must be replaced with ‘weather can be’ as
the correct phrase to use is "weather can be," which conveys the
intended meaning that the weather can be very hot in the
summer. Hence, ‘weather can be’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.670.(b) captain and his team
The part after the preposition is considered additional
information, not an integral part of the subject. But sports is
teamwork. It’s not only the captain but also the team which
failed to qualify for the African National Cup Finals. So, we need
to use conjunction ‘and’ in place of the preposition ‘with’. Hence,
‘captain and his team’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.671.(a) No substitution required
The sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.672.(d) roof collapsed
‘Roof collapsing’ will be replaced with ‘roof collapsed’ as it
indicates that the action of the roof falling down has already
happened in the past. So we need simple past tense and verb
form (V ) that is ‘collapsed’. Hence, ‘roof collapsed’ is the most
2
appropriate answer.
Sol.673.(d) No improvement
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.674.(d) Arrived at the
‘Rendered to the’ must be replaced with ‘arrived at the’ as
"Arrived at" is a commonly used phrase to indicate reaching a
specific location. Hence, ‘arrived at the’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.675.(b) with running water
The phrase ‘with running watered’ must be replaced with ‘with
running water’ as a noun is required after the preposition 'with'.
Also, the participle 'running' is acting as an adjective and
requires a noun. Hence, 'with running water' is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.676.(c) fined for driving
‘Fined of driving’ must be replaced with ‘fined for driving’ as the
preposition "for" to indicate the reason or cause for the fine.
Hence, ‘fined for driving’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.677.(a) rule that seems tied
‘Rule that seemed’ must be replaced with ‘rule that seems’ as
the given sentence is an example of the present tense that uses
verb first form (V + s/es) in assertive sentences. And the verb
1
"seems" to indicate that the rule appears to be connected to the
dispute. Hence, ‘rule that seems tied’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.678.(b) stares at
‘Staring at’ will be replaced with ‘stares at’ as the given sentence
is in present tense. ‘Sits’ is the present form of the verb. ‘At’ is a
fixed preposition used after the verb ‘stare’. Hence, ‘stares at’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.679.(a) The transits of the Planet of Love happen in pairs
The phrase ‘in pairs’ indicates that two transits happen. So,
plural noun ‘transits’ will be used in place of ‘transit’. Hence, ‘the
transits of the Planet of Love happen in pairs’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.680.(a) as hard as ligaments, and many were an inch long
‘Ligament’ must be replaced with ‘ligaments’ as it specifies the
plural form of ‘ligaments’ to match the plural subject ‘them’ and
provides the correct verb form ‘were’ and adjective ‘long’ for
agreement. Hence, ‘as hard as ligaments and many were an inch
long’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.681.(a) fend off the loud clamour of conspiracy theories
The phrase ‘fend off’ means to defend against or repel
something. The phrase should be followed by the preposition
"of" to indicate the object, which is ‘the loud clamour of
conspiracy theories’. Hence, ‘fend off the loud clamour of
conspiracy theories’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.682.(a) No substitution required
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.683.(b) sharply decreased
Sentence Improvement
The phrase ‘sharp decreased’ will be replaced with ‘sharply
decreased’ because an adverb is required before a verb to
modify its meaning. Hence, ‘sharply decreased’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.684.(c) Besides myself, the only English people
‘Beside’ must be replaced with ‘besides’. The preposition
‘besides’ is used to indicate in addition to or apart from
someone or something. Hence, ‘besides myself, the only English
people’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.685.(a) unfortunate events
The phrase ‘unfortunately events’ will be replaced with
‘unfortunate events’ as we need an adjective before the noun
‘events’ to qualify its meaning, not an adverb. Hence,
‘unfortunate events’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.686.(a) No correction required
The sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.687.(c) Plots to dispose of him came
The phrase "dispose of" means to get rid of or eliminate
someone or something. In this sentence, the sentence suggests
that there were plots or plans to eliminate or get rid of him, but
those plans ultimately failed or had no result. Hence, ‘plots to
dispose of him came’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.688.(a) Interest rates four times since last January.
‘From’ will be replaced with ‘since’ because the preposition
‘since’ is used to denote point of time. Hence, ‘interest rates four
times since last January’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.689.(b) No improvement
The sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.690.(b) Because he has been in custody since last July
“Since” is used to denote a point of time and for depicting an
activity that is happening from a long time like since time
immemorial/since ancient times. “For” is used for a fixed period
of time(countable) like 2 years/3 months/4 days/8 hours and for
an activity that happened in a recent time. Hence, ‘Because he
has been in custody since last July’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.691.(d) after a driver
The phrase ‘by a driver’ will be replaced with ‘after the driver’ as
we use the preposition ‘after’ to show that something happens
at a later time than the other thing. The action of flashing
happened first and then the action of losing temper. It is to be
noted that ‘after’ is used at the beginning of the first action.
Hence, ‘after a driver’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.692.(d) There are many good tunes
The phrase ‘There's many a good tunes’ will be replaced with
‘There are many good tunes’ because plural noun(tunes) should
be used with the adjective ‘many’. The verb will also change
accordingly. Plural verb will be used with the plural noun ‘tunes’.
Hence, ‘There are many good tunes’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.693.(a) times of natural
The phrase ‘time of disaster’ will be replaced with the phrase
‘times of disaster’. The phrase ‘in times of’ is used to refer to
situations that occur repeatedly or over an extended period of
time. Natural disasters happen quite often. Hence, ‘times of
natural’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.694.(a) strode off
The phrase ‘strided off into’ will be replaced with ‘strode off’ as
the given sentence is in the past and the correct past form of
‘stride’ is ‘strode’. Hence, ‘strode off’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.695.(b) Could such a book
The phrase ‘could such a book’ functions as a conditional
statement expressing doubt or disbelief. The modal verb "could"
suggests the possibility or ability of something happening, in
this case, a book being written. The word "such" emphasizes the
particular type or nature of the book being referred to. Together,
this choice conveys the skepticism or questioning about the
book's existence prior to the person's own experiences. Hence, ‘
could such a book ’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.696.(b) and on many evenings he helps me with the
‘Many + plural noun’ is the correct grammatical structure. Also,
article ‘the’ is generally used before known or familiar things.
Since ‘the dishes’ are used by the person regularly, the person is
familiar ‘with the dishes’. Hence, ‘and on many evenings he helps
me with the’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.697.(b)
to most people for whom email has become a necessity
‘Who’ will be replaced with ‘whom’ as it functions as the object
of the preposition (for). ‘Whom’ is the objective case form of the
relative pronoun ‘who’ and is used when the pronoun is
functioning as the object of a verb or preposition. Hence, ‘whom’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.698.(d) No correction required
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.699.(b) The unexpected entrance
The phrase ‘The shocked entrance’ will be replaced with ‘The
unexpected entrance’ as the word ‘unexpected’ fits into the
context of the sentence. ‘Unexpected entrance’ means entering a
place in a surprising manner. Hence, ‘the unexpected entrance’ is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.700.(c) The way in which
The phrase ‘by the way in what’ must be replaced with ‘the way
in which’ as we generally use the phrase ‘the way in which’ to
show the manner in which something is being done. This phrase
gives the same meaning as the relative adverb ‘how’. Hence, ‘the
way in which’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.701.(a)
Hormonal and emotional stimuli also causes sweating
The conjunction ‘or’ will be replaced with the conjunction ‘and’ as
it is used to connect two or more words. Since both the factors
‘hormonal stimulus’ and ‘emotional stimulus’ are responsible for
sweating, we need to use the conjunction ‘and’. The given
sentence is an example of Simple Present Tense as the
prepositional phrase is given in Simple Present tense. Hence,
‘hormonal and emotional stimuli also causes sweating’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.702.(a) progress as a
‘Progress as a’ functions as a prepositional phrase modifying the
noun ‘society’. It indicates that the society has made
extraordinary progress or advancement in a certain regard.
Hence, ‘progress as a’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.703.(c)
Sentence Improvement
sea routes between Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Article ‘the’ must be removed as ‘Great Britain and northern
ireland’ is being used as a proper noun to refer to the specific
region, so the definite article is not required. Hence, ‘sea routes
between Great Britain and Northern Ireland’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.704.(d) sun to dry
The word ‘suns’ must be replaced with ‘sun’ as we don’t make
plurals of the proper noun 'Sun'. Hence, ‘sun to dry’ is the most
appropriate answer.
Sol.705.(b) relief to be away.
‘Easement’ must be replaced with ‘relief’ as it conveys the sense
of comfort and freedom from something undesirable. Hence,
‘relief to be away’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.706.(c) Has a reputation for
The phrase ‘had a reputation’ must be replaced with ‘has a
reputation for’. According to subject-verb agreement, a singular
verb should be used for a singular subject. We generally use the
preposition ‘for’ to express reason. Hence, ‘has a reputation for’
is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.707.(d) The given sentence is in the simple present tense so
the verb must be used in the simple present form(V ). Hence,
1
‘lives(V ) on’ is the most appropriate answer.
1
Sol.708.(a) We cannot write the past form of the uncountable
noun ‘hair’. Hence, ‘haired’ must be replaced with ‘hair’ & ‘hair
short’ becomes the most appropriate answer.
Sol.709.(a) No improvement.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.710.(d) ‘Has + V 3 ’ is the correct grammatical structure for
the given sentence which is in the present perfect tense. Hence,
‘has been removed(V 3 ) for 6 months’ is the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.711.(b) We do not use the definite article ‘the’ before ‘Mount’
. Hence, ‘the’ will be removed from the given sentence & ‘Mount
Kilimanjaro in Tanzania and on Mount Kenya’ becomes the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.712.(b) We never use ‘that’ with the reporting verb(said) in
direct speech. Hence, ‘that’ will be removed from the given
sentence & ‘The councillor said, "We plan to make the state a
safer place for everyone." becomes the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.713.(b) No improvement.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.714.(d) ‘Embarked’ means to go on to a ship or an aircraft.
The given sentence states that we embarked on a new journey.
Hence, ‘embarked’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.715.(c) ‘Neither………nor’ is a fixed conjunction pair. Hence,
‘neither as funny nor as’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.716.(b) 'Grow' must be replaced with 'grown' as we need an
adjective here to qualify the noun 'chihuahua'. 'Grown' is a past
participle of 'grow', acting as an adjective. Hence, 'fully grown' is
the most appropriate answer.
Sol.717.(c) No improvement.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.718.(d) The given sentence needs the plural form of
‘summons’ which is ‘summonses’. Hence, ‘that the police had
issued him several summonses’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.719.(a) The given sentence needs a verb in the past
tense(V ) because it talks about an action of the past. Hence,
2
‘raised(V ) two distinct’ is the most appropriate answer.
2
Sol.720.(a) The given sentence is in the simple past tense so the
verb must be used in the simple past form(V ). Hence,
2
‘decamped(V ) with valuables’ is the most appropriate answer.
2
Sol.721.(c) No improvement.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.722.(d) The given sentence needs an adjective(main) to tell
a quality about the subject and not an adverb(mainly). However,
we always use the preposition ‘at’ before a time clause (3
o’clock). Hence, ‘main street at’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.723.(d) There is a prepositional error in the given sentence.
The preposition ‘by’ must be replaced with ‘of’. Hence, ‘picture of
a witch riding’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.724.(b) No improvement.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.725.(b) The given sentence needs a positive degree
adjective not a superlative degree adjective(stickiest). Hence,
‘too sticky’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.726.(b) The given sentence needs an adjective(religious) to
tell a quality about the subject and not an adverb(religiously).
Hence, ‘religious importance’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.727.(a) We will not use the gerund(V-ing) form of the verb
‘work’ in the given sentence. Hence, ‘leaves for work’ is the most
appropriate answer,
Sol.728.(d) The given sentence is in the simple present tense so
the verb must be used in the simple present form(V ). Hence,
1
‘me a blister(V )’ is the most appropriate answer.
1
Sol.729.(b) There is a prepositional error in the given sentence.
The preposition ‘off’ must be replaced with ‘about’ as we
generally use the preposition ‘about’ after the noun ‘thinking’.
Hence, ‘I am thinking about’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.730.(a) The given sentence needs an adverb(especially) and
not an adjective(special). Hence, ‘small leaks, especially’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.731.(b) No improvement.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.732.(d) ‘Witness’ is a person who sees something happen
and who can tell other people about it later. However, the given
sentence needs a ‘noun’ and not a ‘verb’. Hence, the verb
‘witnessed’ must be replaced with the noun ‘witness’ &
‘witnesses could identify’ becomes the most appropriate
answer.
Sol.733.(b) ‘Superlative degree adjective’ denotes the form of an
adjective that expresses the highest or a very high degree of
quality of a thing, person, etc. For example, best, worst, greatest,
most, least, etc. However, we always place the definite article
‘the’ before any superlative adjective. Similarly, in the given
Sentence Improvement
sentence, ‘least’ is the superlative degree adjective. Hence, ‘the
least expensive’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.734.(a) According to the “Subject-Verb Agreement Rule”, a
singular subject always takes a singular verb and a plural
subject always takes a plural verb. In the given sentence, ‘poets’
is a plural subject that will take ‘have’ as a plural verb. Hence,
‘many old poets, such as Tennyson and Browning, have’ is the
most appropriate answer.
Sol.735.(a) ‘Preposition + V - ing’ is the correct grammatical
structure for the given sentence. Hence, ‘soaked from walking(V
- ing)’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.736.(d) If the relative pronoun is followed by a ‘verb’, then
the relative pronoun must be ‘who’ and if it is followed by a noun
or pronoun, then the relative pronoun must be ‘whom’.
Hence,‘who are(verb) part of the cricket crowds, some of whom
are presumably born in England’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.737.(b) No improvement.
The given sentence is grammatically correct.
Sol.738.(c) ‘If + Subject + Plural Verb’ is the correct
grammatical structure for the given sentence. Hence, ‘She would
have been a great sister if she(subject) were(plural verb) just a
bit more careful’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.739.(a) The given sentence needs an adverb(steadily) to
modify the verb(increasing) and not an adjective(steady). Hence,
‘has been steadily increasing’ is the most appropriate answer.
Sol.740.(d) The adjective in the sentence is tragic. The adjective
will be used in the comparative form. To make the comparative
of tragic we will add “less” before it.Hence, ‘less tragic than’ is
the most appropriate answer.
